Your Excellency, Having successfully celebrated yet another “Democracy Day” in  office, let me join millions of your well wishers and supporters  worldwide in congratulating you on this auspicious occasion in our  national lives. It is with greatest respect and deepest sense of  responsibility that I write this open letter to you on the current inconsistencies and illogical presentations on the chieftaincy tussle  in Mbula land. Just like Doctors without borders, so are the Journalists. Some  might ask; what is Ibrahim’s interest in the chieftaincy affairs of  Mbula land and why should he write an open letter on an issue   that has little or affinity to his pedigree? In this era of technology   and globalization, the world is now a global village where public  relations dazzles public good and contest of ideas overcomes  conflict of personalities. As an indigene of Adamawa I am a  concerned citizen and an interested party. Your Excellency, under the purview of your Government an  abominable act that may likely desecrate our viable norms and  values is about to happen in Mbula land. Our interest in this  endeavour is to safeguard our traditional institutions from hijack by  money bags that are desperate in undertaking a gradual but  systematic dismantling and disintegration of our collective will and  values. With the demise of His Royal Highness, Jerome .J. Fwa, Murum Mbula, just a couple of months ago or so, there are attempts by  some people with godfathers’ to truncate the traditional lineage  of succession of the highly revered stool of Murum Mbula. This  issue, your Excellency is as profoundly injurious to the tenets of our  highly respected traditional institutions as it is to our democratic values. Towards this endeavour, it is my submission that the whole  process lacks honest, transparent and selfless approach to good  conscience and natural justices in every material, particular.The deceased, Murum Mbula, J.J. Fwa as he was fondly called,  left a “big shoe” to be occupied by his successors. I remember  with palpable nostalgia his brilliance that dazzled mediocrity, his  legendary kindness, wise counsel, virtues of humility, infectious  charm and strength of character were attributes of a powerful  ruler that cannot be easily forgotten. He was a source of  inspiration that upheld the core values of tradition and culture. In Mbula land or better still Mbula federation, the line of  succession falls within the brackets of two Royal clans of a bigger  family of royalty. Duragi and the Ndantul clans. Going down memory lane, it could be recalled that from 1885 when HRH  Mboiman ascended the throne whose rein lasted to 1894, was of  the Ndantul clan where kingmakers actively participated in his natural choice as a king. From then on, sapan1896 – 1906 of the  Duragi clan. This tradition of succession based on clannish  identities continued to rotate between the two clans with Usman  Mboiman 1928 – 1943, Ndantul, constant Banabe 1943 – 43 – Duragi, Biyapo Usman 1943 – 63 – Ndantul, Joel Nzabusa Fwa – 1963 – 1993 – Duragi, whisky M, Usman 1994 – 95 Ndantul and JJ  Fwa 1995 – 2021 – Duragi  By natural succession plan based or rotational values as enshrined  in their “traditional constitution” it is now the turn of Ndantul clan   to provide the next king. But recent events are grossly disturbing as according to Stephen  Hasso, a retired deputy Commissioner of Police is of the view that  there is a willful and deliberate attempt to truncate the succession  network of his people in Mbula land. He opened that about four  contestants from the Fwa family representing the Duragi clan are  at it again. He also raised fundamental objection as to why an  Election Committee would be set up by the government as  against the traditional “Kingmakers” to elect the new  MurumMbula. He said “I have never seen or heard anywhere in the history of  chieftaincy where an Election Committee is forwarded by the  government to elect a first class chief. Has Traditional Institution  become INEC? The tradition is all over the place as same is applicable in Lunguda, shelleng and Bachama chiefdoms where  Kingmakers elect the new king.” Your Excellency, I think we should not lose sight of the bigger   picture of the collateral damage this action may likely cause the  traditional institution in Mbula land. Using any parameter of our cultural practices, the imposition of an  “Electoral Committee” to elect a king is an aberration and an  anathema that is repugnant to equity, natural justice and good  conscience. In view of the foregoing and in the interest of fair play and justice  to which Governor Ahmadu Fintiri is noted for, we believe that no  responsible and responsive government would fold its arms in the  face of glaring injustice and monumental underhand dealings in  the process of electing a first class king. As a passionate and compassionate democrat of conscience  who operates by the dictates of the “Books” Governor Fintiri has  history by his side for standing against injustice in this endeavor. As  an exceptionally great strategic thinker whose love for humanity  found its deepest and most profound expression in his  commitment to social justice, we appeal to Governor Fintiri to  stand his grounds against rapacious and destructive cleavages,  spiraling indiscipline and deceptive impurity in Mbula chieftaincy tussle. It is against this background that we appeal to the Governor that  chieftaincy stool is not a “bazaar” where any hawk can hijack the  process. Tradition must play a fundamental role as the people of  Mbula Federation who have great respect for the Governor are  expecting nothing less than a transparent process where the  kingmakers would be accorded the traditional respect of  choosing the right successor to the departed J.J Fwa. – Modibbo, Strategic Communicator And Analyst on National Issues is an Abuja based Journalist.