The Kogi State governor, Alh. Yahaya Bello, has been described as “uncommon phenomenon” for his “resilience and ability to dissect issues and downgrade division”. This was the position of the Kogi State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr Kingsley Fanwo, who said Governor Bello has become a bridge-builder and the man who all Nigerians can trust with the destiny of the Nigerian nation. Fanwo stated this in a birthday message to the governor, made available to journalists in Lokoja on Friday. “Governor Yahaya Bello is 46 today and his age, youthfulness, dynamism and pragmatism have got Nigerians thinking. He is an opportunity Nigeria must seize with all the hands available. “He is not the average Nigerian politician. He is completely committed to develop the people and give people hope in the Green-White-Green flag. Even as a Governor, he is solving Nigeria’s problems because he is trusted by all Nigerians. “I am not surprised that Nigerians home and abroad are celebrating him today on his birthday. He has developed a connection that is bringing Nigerians together to solve the nation’s problems. He is a phenomenon,” he said. The Commissioner said it was a privilege to know and work with the governor but that “learning from him has been the biggest asset.” “Initially, he was misunderstood. A sick child will always see his nurse who gives him injection as an inconsiderate person. But when he becomes healthy, he will understand the need for the injection. “Governor Yahaya Bello has developed into a cult hero, a Nigerian who is trusted and loved by Nigerians; a leader who cares about the safety and well-being of his people; a warrior who leads from the front; an excellent nationalist whose cabinet is made up of people from all the geopolitical zones; a man who began to run Nigeria in Kogi since 2016. “I wish him good health and more energy because the next two years will be quite tasking for him. He must listen to the voices of Nigerians calling on him to take Nigeria to the promise land,” Fanwo added.