Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has said no Nigerians should welcome another war to keep the country together.
The forum noted that the North in particular has more than enough challenges and “we recognise that violent secession by any part of the Nigeria will compound the problems of all Nigerians”. The director of publicity and advocacy NEF, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, made this known during a press briefing in Abuja, yesterday. He said political leaders in the South East appears to have submitted to violence and terror of IPOB and ESN. According to him, muted voices of millions of Igbo cannot be heard so that fellow Nigerian could understand the degree to which secession by the Igbo represent the popular choice. He said, “The Forum has arrived at the difficult conclusion that if support for secession among the Igbo is as widespread as it is being made to look, and Igbo leadership appears to be in support of it, then the country should be advised not stand in its way. “It will not be the best choice for the Igbo or Nigerians to leave a country we have all toiled to build and a country we all have responsibility to fix, but it will not help a country already burdened with failures on its knees to fight another war to keep the Igbo in Nigeria. “The forum insists that attacks and killings of Northerners and Federal Government employees and destruction of National assets must stop. Those who have been involved in it must be arrested and prosecuted.” “Until the Igbo decide whether it wants to secede or remain part of Nigeria, the law applies to it, and federal and state governors who have responsibility to enforce the law and protect citizens must enforce it. We support calls for Northerners who are exposed to harassment and violence to consider relocating to the North. “The Forum believes that it is vital to address amendments to the constitution and achieve major changes in the structure and operations of our federal system now. Members of the National Assembly elected by Nigerians have lost touch with the people they are supposed to represent.”