Multinational oil firm, Total Exploration and Production Nigeria (TEPNG) has signed a renegotiated Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with two of its host communities in Rivers State, after the expiration of the old agreements in 2016 and 2017 respectively. The two communities are Mgbuesilaru Community in Obio/Akpor local government area and Nvakaohia-Rumuekpe Community in Emohua local government area of the state. In his keynote address at the ceremony in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, the executive director, Port Harcourt District, TEPNG, Obi Imemba, said he was convinced that the content and depth of the MoUs were far-reaching and have the potential to positively affect the lives of the communities. Imemba said: “Going through the MoUs, I am convinced that their content and depth are quite far-reaching and have the potential to positively affect the lives of the communities. “The various provisions made in the MoUs, from our infrastructure to human capital development initiatives, it is clear that on our own part, the company is committed to touching the lives of the people regardless of the challenges which the industry is facing today. “Therefore, as we celebrate this renewed relationships, let us do so with a renewed spirit and conviction to implement the provisions for the mutual benefit of the parties as our company will be fulfilled and proud to identify with positive results which shall be brought to the communities through the implementation of these MoUs.” Speaking at the event, the Rivers State Commissioner for Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Sunny Ejekwu, thank TEPNG for its commitment towards the success of the signing of the MoUs. Ejekwu said: “We thank you for your commitment is seeing that this is successful. What you have done is to assist Rivers State government is taking development to our communities.” Responding on behalf of the two communities, Eze Ejike Wali and Chief Sunday Oloko, thanked TEPNG and the Rivers State government for making the event a success.