The first batch of Team Nigeria contingent to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games will depart the country on Tuesday, July 6, 2021, to Kisarazu, a city in Chiba Prefecture, Japan, ahead of the delayed summer Games. The minister of youth and sports development, Mr Sunday Dare, made the announcement on Monday during the meeting of the National Sports Federations for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and Paralympic Games held at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. He said the Team Nigeria’s contingent of 61-athletes flying the country’s flag in Tokyo will depart for the Olympics in two batches. “For the Olympic Games, the first batch of the athletes are scheduled to depart for Kisarazu on July 6, 2021, while the second batch departs on July 13, 2021. “The Paralympic Teams will depart in one batch on August 8, 2021,” Dare said. He gave a breakdown of the events Team Nigeria would participate in, with a charge to the athletes and officials to make the country proud. “As at today, Nigeria has qualified 61 athletes across nine sports for the Olympics and 22 athletes in four sports for the Paralympic Games, which are athletics-22, badminton-3, basketball-24, canoe sprint-1, gymnastic-1, rowing-1, taekwondo-1, tableTennis-1, wrestling-1, to bring the total to 61. “For Paralympic Games we have; para athletics-5, para powerlifting-10, power rowing-1, para table tennis-6, summing up to 22,” the Minister stated. According to him, the recent qualification of the women’s 4x100m, women’s 4x400m and 4x400m mixed relays was a significant achievement for the country, saying the Ministry in collaboration with the Nigerian Olympic Committee (NOC) has scheduled a 14-day Pre-Games Training Camp (PGTC) for the athletes in Kisarazu, Japan. He explained that the arrangement would further expose the athletes to further preparations ahead of their events, as well as give them ample time to adjust to the Japanese time zone. He also revealed that in order to ensure a hitch-free participation at the Tokyo Games, the Ministry had engaged four travel agencies to handle flight tickets of Team Nigeria’s contingents.