The executive chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, said former Abia state governor, Orji Uzor Kalu and other past governors will be prosecuted all over. Recall that Kalu had been convicted up to the Court of Appeal before the Supreme Court nullified the conviction and ordered a re-trial. Bawa also said the EFCC was set to begin prosecution of 800 new corruption cases and revealed that since his assumption, a number of recoveries have been made including N6 billion, $161 million, £13,000 and €1,730, among others. EFCC spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren, quoted Bawa as saying while speaking at a media briefing at the Presidential Villa, Abuja against the backdrop of his 100 days in office as EFCC chairman. The EFCC boss said quite a lot has been accomplished in the process of actualizing some of the promises he made to Nigerians during his confirmation by the Senate. According to him, the milestones recorded so far include the restructuring of the commission for improved performance with the establishment of a new directorate as well as the reorganization and upgrade of a couple of others. He said in line with his vision to run an agency that is driven by intelligence, a Directorate of Intelligence had been created, which impact is already being felt through the provision of intelligence that led to a major recovery. In terms of the improvement of processes, he revealed that he Commission has commenced the codification of Standard Operating Procedures for all Units and Departments. The measure, he said, will remove discretion from the work of the Commission. Reiterating a point he made before the Senate, the EFCC boss said he envisions a Commission where he, as executive chairman, will give instruction to an officer and he would say, ‘sorry sir, I cannot carry out your directive because it conflicts with the rule’. “I want an institution that works with rules and regulations…we will launch the SOPs soon and the EFCC can run on auto pilot,” he said. Other measures already rolled out by the Commission, the EFCC boss said, include development of policies on Document Classification, Healthcare, Sexual Harassment and Bullying, Staff Welfare, Training, Communication, New Staff Ranking, Use of Firearms and Retirement, among others. He further disclosed that the Commission had taken steps to improve its operational capabilities through the modification of Assets Declaration forms in line with the Commission’s enabling laws. He said strategies to prevent corruption through fraud risk assessment for MDAs, monitoring of procurement process and extensive public enlightenment, including the resuscitation of the interfaith dialogue. The platform which was launched in 2014 as avenue for Muslims and Christian to be sensitized on corruption through a teaching and preaching manual, is being revived. The teaching manuals, he said, are being reviewed and will be launched soon. Other measures to prevent corruption, according to the EFCC boss, include the development of a Property Ownership Database with the ultimate objective of determining the beneficial owners of properties. Additionally, he disclosed that the Commission was developing an App which will facilitate the seamless reporting of complaints to the agency by citizens eager to assist the fight against corruption. The App, he said, will soon be launched. Bawa said the Commission in the last 100 days has strengthened its partnership with local and international partners, fully conscious of the fact that it cannot fight corruption alone. He further provided updates on the recoveries recorded over the past three months as well as the record of arrest in cybercrime cases. Expressing worry about youth involvement in internet fraud, Bawa said the commission was working with stakeholders to discourage them and appealed to the media to assist in sensitizing the youths against cybercrime.