A Nigeria Diaspora Direct Investment Summit (NDDIS) designed to enhance sports business and physical education in Nigeria through Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is scheduled for August 26-27 in London, United Kingdom. In a statement released to journalists by the organisers, NDDIS Sports, the Summit is themed, ‘ICT: A Veritable Tool for Delivering Physical Education and Enhancing Sports Business in Nigeria’. The thematic areas to be explored during the conference would include Nigerian Sports in the Era of New Media, ICT Driven Sponsorship Activation, Delivering Sports and Physical Education Virtually in this new normal era. NDDIS sports will host participants at the iconic 9 Northumberland Avenue, London, the Nigerian High Commission in Central London to a high level business to business cocktail opening ceremony on the August 26, 2021; while the plenary, breakout sessions and dinner will take place the next day August 27, 2021 at Holiday Inn, Kensington High Street London. According to the chairman of NDDIS, Chief Bimbo Robert Afolayan, “this is a continuation of our commitment at NDDIS to use our leverage and reach in the diaspora to contribute to the task of nation building. This year, we are focused on ICT and how it can be deployed within the sports business and physical education sector. Remember that sports is now a business in Nigeria according to the FG.” Similarly, the director of sports at NDDIS, Bob Olukoya, submitted that grassroots sports business in Nigeria is worth over N2 trillion annually but has remained largely untapped. He expects participants and investors at the summit to synergise on ways to unlock this huge potentials. As global travels continue to recover after the pandemic, Olukoya is convinced that more sports and physical education training will be delivered online and Nigeria must be prepared for this new dawn. The summit, as projected, provides additional opportunities for sports federations, club owners and coaches associations in Nigeria to engage with ICT specialists in enhancing their technical capabilities in this regard. There is, according to the organisers, the opportunity for participants, academics and industry experts to make presentations at the summit. Abstract of such presentations must be submitted not later than 16th July to the organisers via their email address: info@nddissports.com. “This is an opportunity for Nigerian sporting stakeholders to have a captive audience just to talk about Nigerian sports and how ICT can make a difference. It is an arena to engage the fine minds, digital entrepreneurs, government leaders, sports clubs, sports federations, bankers, captains of industries from Nigeria and the UK on how to better manage sports business and physical education in Nigeria through the knowledge of Information and Communication Technology,” Olukoya explained.