The federal government through the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (OSSAP-SDGs) has launched the Nigeria Sustainable Development Goals Implementation Plan 2020-2030, with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The launch took place in Abuja on Monday, during the convening of state actors for the advocacy and capacity building workshop on SDGs mainstreaming at the sub-national level in Nigeria, organised by OSSAP-SDGs, in collaboration with UNDP. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, at the launch, explained that since the historic adoption of the 2030 Agenda for SDGs by Nigeria, the federal government has continued to demonstrate commitment in the overall implementation of the SDGs, including the timely establishment of institutional frameworks to ensure effective implementation of the global goals. According to Orelope-Adefulire, in the last five years, they have worked closely with the United Nations Development System and our development partners to strengthen SDGs implementation capacity at all levels of governance in Nigeria, that such strategic partnerships and support demonstrate their collective commitment to the transformative promise of the 2030 Agenda. “Indeed, this engagement is a conscious attempt at supporting the state governments to prioritise and mainstream the SDGs into their medium and long-term development policies and plans. “The year 2021 is a landmark year for us, as we commenced the Second Phase of scaling-up implementation in the Decade of Action for the Global Goals. This will involve strengthening the capacities of state officials to conceptualise, integrate and implement the SDGs at the sub-national level, with the aim of ensuring that No Nigerian is left behind. “’An estimated 65 per cent ,of the 169 targets of the 17 SDGs will not be reached without the engagement of local and regional governments’. Nigeria’s 2017 National Voluntary Review (NVR) also acknowledges that it is at the sub-national level that the most critical development challenges reside,” she said. For his part, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr. Edward Kallon, said that building on the foundation which has been laid at the national level, the workshops will serve as key first steps in strengthening SDG-Based Development planning at the state level in Nigeria. “Stakeholders from the Federal Capital and from each state in Nigeria are being represented in Abuja to participate in the strategic programme. The first stream with participants will be taking place from 7-10 June, while the second stream takes place in the ensuing week from 14-16 June, 2021. “The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted during the 70th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on September 25, 2015. With the adoption of the SDGs, world leaders have set bold and ambitious targets for an inclusive, prosperous, equitable, just, and peaceful world. ‘Indeed, this vision is underpinned by the Five Pillars of sustainable development – people, peace, prosperity, partnership, and planet (5Ps). Brought together, the SDGs are a Universal call to action to end poverty, safeguard the planet and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity by the year 2030,” he stated.