Kaduna State Police Command has paraded eight suspects for their involvement in criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and culpable homicide in some parts of the state. Among the suspects are two persons who had admitted killing a man to avoid paying the debt of N385,000 they owed him. The suspects were paraded at the police command headquarters, Kaduna on behalf of the commissioner of police Kaduna State Command, CP Umar Muri, by the police public relations officer Mohammed Jalige. Two of the suspects admitted killing a man to avoid repaying the sum of N385,000, which they owed him.
On 5th June, 2021, the command received a complaint from one Bashir of Zaria town that on the 4th June, 2021 his biological son, Idris Bashi, left home and never returned and is suspected that his son’s friend one Mannir Salihu was responsible for the victim’s disappearance. He said the police investigated the matter and launched a manhunt for the suspect.
“After apprehending the suspect, he disclosed that himself and one Aliyu Yahaya ‘m’ of No. 94 Anguwan Magajiya, Zaria City lured the victim to an uncompleted building where they killed him and dumped the body in an abandoned well.” In an interview with the two suspects, they confessed to committing the dastardly act of ending the victim’s life in a gruesome manner in order to avoid refunding the sum of N385,000 they owed the deceased. In another development, the police said, one Mallam Ismail of Tudun Jukun, Zaria reported to the command through Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Tudun Wada, Zaria that on the same date he suspected that his four years old son Mohammed Ismail was kidnapped to an unknown destination. He said the police investigated the allegation and “on the 16th May, 2021 the abductors sent a letter containing a GSM number to the father directing him to pay the sum of N1.5million if he wants to secure the freedom of his son. However, after much persuasion the abductors agreed to accept N50,000 through the account of a PoS agent at Zuba, Abuja. “The victim was released on the 19th May, 2021 at about 1700hrs through a commercial motorcyclist in Gwargwaje area of Zaria Metropolis. In a turn of events, the victim kept calling the name of one Sani Sa’adu who is their neighbour which arose the suspicion that he might know a thing about the incident. “Police immediately intervened and invited the said Sani Sa’adu for questioning. Lo and behold, it was discovered that he masterminded the kidnapping and went ahead to mention his criminal accomplices as one Abdullahi Usman and Usman Idris all of the same address”. Also, “On 22nd March, 2021 at about 2100hrs one Alh. Hamza Suleiman m of No.1 Bello Street Hayin Naiya Kaduna reported at Rafin Guza Division that his son one Affan Hamza ‘m’ 6yrs was kidnapped by unknown person. During investigation one Jabir Salisu ‘m’ was arrested in connection to the crime who led to the arrest of one Abba Ibrahim and Muhammed Shaibu all ‘m’ of Hayin Naiya, Kaduna”.