The Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai, Major General Christopher Musa, has said that Nigerians should expect victory against Boko Haram/ ISWAP terrorists from the Nigerian military. Major General Musa said with President Muhammadu Buhari’s marching order to troops on Thursday, in addition to the support the president has given to the Nigerian Army, the Army on its part will ensure that the terrorism war is brought to a logical conclusion very soon. The Theatre Commander said this on Friday in Maiduguri shortly after taking over the Command and Control Centre of Operation Hadin Kai from the outgone Theatre Commander, Major General Felix Omoigui. While noting that since insurgency is asymmetric and a continuous warfare, he said the Army will keep on evolving until the adversaries that are also evolving are terminated. “We will keep evolving, the adversaries are evolving and we will keep on evolving until we ensure that we terminate everyone that is opposing our victory,” said Major General Musa. He pleaded with the media to give maximum support to the military in its reportage since issue of security is everyone’s concern. Continuing, he said:” Please I want to solicit the support of the media. We are all human beings, we are all Nigerians. During war, nobody wins, we are all victims. So the media has a lot of role to play on this aspect.” Earlier speaking, the outgone Theatre Commander, Major General Omoigui, who noted that he has been around the theatre of operation for the past one year with well trained and disciplined troops in the theatre, added that with what is on the ground, the insurgency war will soon come to an end. “We have disciplined troops, well trained soldiers, they are very hardworking and I am sure my reliever, the Theatre Commander would with what he has seen on ground bring the war to an end. “I know with the commitment of the President, the Chief of Defence Staff and all the Service Chiefs, the war will be brought to end soon,” Omoigui added.