The majority leader of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, has assured that the Bill for an Act to establish the Nigerian Peace Corps will be passed by the 9th National Assembly and assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari. In a press statement on Thursday by the public relations officer of Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN), Mrs Millicent Umoru-Osakwua, Rt Hon Doguwa gave the assurance when he paid an unscheduled visit to a joint meeting of PCN to reconstitute the state command executives of Jigawa, Kano and Katsina States in Kano. Doguwa stated that his overwhelming support was based on the fact that youths have come together in their own patriotic zeal to render their selfless services for the peace and security of the country. Doguwa added that they at the 9th Assembly will continue to support the Peace Corps of Nigeria for its commitment to positively engage youths within the ages of 18 to 45 years as a means to preoccupy them in meaningful and productive ventures to enable them contribute to nation building rather than their idle state being exploited for negative tendencies. According to him, “We are therefore, committed and determined, as it is expected of us at this critical period of insecurity bedevilling our land to ensure that the security of lives and properties is most paramount to every well meaning Nigerian. He added that, “since the Corps has availed itself to serve and its members are ready to provide complementary Security Services to the nation at this critical period, the Corps deserves the support of every meaningful Nigerian.” Also speaking on the occasion, a former Senator representing Kano South senatorial district in the National Assembly, Senator Mas’ud Jibril Doguwa urged members of PCN, to remain steadfast and committed to their struggle as he is optimistic that Hon Alhassan Ado Doguwa as well as the entire members of the National Assembly are doing their best and are committed to the ideals of good governance, peace and security of the nation. Similarly, the Kano State government, through the permanent secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sport Development, Sa’id Kabir Magami said it will provide the necessary support to train youths in the state into the Corps. In his response, the national commandant of the PCN, Prof Dickson Akoh, said the Corps as one of the leading youth organisations in Africa was ever ready and willing to work for the betterment of the people most especially as it relates to the peace and security of the nation. While appreciating Hon Doguwa, as well as the Kano State government, Prof Akoh urged the youths to continue to be peaceful in their dealings as they remain united as a people.