The Senate on Tuesday held a minute silence to mourn the demise of popular televangelist, Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua, the founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN). This was just as the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, sent a condolence message to the family of the deceased who died on Saturday, last week. Coming under Order 43 of the Senate Rules, the Deputy Leader, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, drew the attention of his colleagues to the demise of Prophet T. B. Joshua. He said: “I bring to the attention of the Senate, with heavy heart, the death of Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua, prominent philanthropist and founder of Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) on June 5, 2021 at the age of 57; “The Late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua was born on June 13, 1963 in Arigidi Akoko, Ondo North Senatorial District, Ondo State; “He received his early education at St. Stephen’s Anglican Primary School in Arigidi Akoko, Nigeria, between 1971 and 1977; “The late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua was a man of humble beginning who rose to build the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), a ministry renowned for charity; with membership from across Nigeria, Africa, Latin America and other parts of the world.” Senator Boroffice eulogised Prophet T. B. Joshua saying, “He epitomised the true Nigerian spirit, he was religious tolerant, welcoming to all ethnic inclinations and believed in the unity of Nigeria; “The late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua was an illustrious son of Ondo State who contributed his quota to the advancement of Ondo State, sponsored electrification projects in communities, installed transformers and largely provided succor to the needy in the society; “The late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua was renowned for his humanitarian services in key areas like community support, scholarships, disaster relief, education, sports and support for migrants and deportees; “For many years, late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua sponsored feeding programmes for widows, orphans, physically challenged and less privileged people without discriminations; “His commitment to peace and stability of this country was quite mind-boggling as he committed huge resources to live changing rehabilitation programmes for former Niger Delta militants; “He was a major promoter of sports development in Nigeria, established the Emmanuel Soccer Academy and my People FC for the purpose of helping young talented footballers and some of the young footballers have made Nigeria proud in international competitions; “He was a great ambassador of Nigeria as he sponsored a combined team of medical personnel and humanitarian workers to Haiti aftermath of the Haiti earthquake in 2010; “Furthermore, late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua extended humanitarian aid to Ecuador and rebuilt school in Ecuador after the Ecuador earthquake in 2016; “The late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua significantly promoted tourism in Nigeria as thousands of religious tourists from Africa and other continents fly into Nigeria to attend his church’s weekly services; “He was a consummate and compassionate Nigerian who supported community development in great measures and paid his dues in Nation building; “In recognition of his altruistic contributions to National development, the Federal Government of Nigeria honoured late Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua with Order of the Federal Republic (OFR) in 2008; “His death is great loss to Ondo North Senatorial District in particular and Ondo State and Nigeria in general; “Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua lived a selfless and impactful life, and left a legacy of service and sacrifice.” In his remarks, the Senate President said, “Let me condole the family of T. B. Joshua, and also say that our country and Nigerian Leaders across all levels need prayers. “We need the intervention of God while we continue to do our work and perform our functions and duties. “The prayers from everyone will be very important and we continue to ask for that because this nation and the people believe in God, and we believe that God can help us in anyway that is possible to overcome the numerous challenges our country is passing through.” 