Starting a makeup business in Nigeria is not difficult. In fact, as an individual you can start makeup business anywhere you find yourself in the country.  As long as you have the passion for it, you can succeed. The good thing about this business is that you do not necessarily require a huge amount of capital before you go into the makeup business.  With as low as N50,000 or even less, you can start this business in Nigeria. However, it is advisable to go for makeup training if you want to take it as a full time job, especially if you want to be a makeup artist in Nollywood industry. According to Deola Aina, a makeup artist and photographer, “If you are going to do it then invest in it wholeheartedly. Go for a course. I have never been a big fan of not going to school to learn.” Start-Up Capital And Profitability With the skill acquired, entry into the makeup business requires money and considering the major tools used by makeup artists, a standard capital for establishing a makeup business is  between N50,000 and N100,000, which will mostly be spent on acquiring quality makeup kits. This is aside annual rent for the makeup studio that may gulp up to N150,000, depending on the location. With the necessary capital acquired, the make up artiste may not really need a studio, yet because at the beginning, he or she can always  work from home and as time goes on with the business expanding, a studio can be acquired later on. “I started with N50,000 because the costumes are very expensive. This is aside renting a shop because buying costumes, renting a shop, before setting it up it really quite expensive but still affordable compared to other businesses,” according to a makeup artist, Omotosho Eniola Ruth. According to what I discovered, makeUp business is highly profitable. You can make profit as high as N500,000 monthly or more, depending on how much you invest in it and how much businesses you receive in a month. Ruth, who says the makeup business is very lucrative because some people can’t go out without makeup, expected a serious boom in the business in the next five years.