Federal government has raised alarm over alleged attempts to undermine Team Nigeria’s chances at the forthcoming Tokyo Olympic Games in Japan. The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development disclosed this in a statement signed by the director of press and public relations, Mohammed Manga, on Thursday, June 17. The statement which was made available to LEADERSHIP Sports, warned that the Ministry will not accept any act of sabotaging Nigeria’s Olympics Invitational trials slated for this weekend in Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, thereby undermining Nigeria’s chances at the delayed Tokyo Games.  “The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development finds it pertinent to warn that it will not accept any act of sabotage calculated at undermining Nigeria’s chances at the Tokyo Olympics. “The warning became necessary after it was brought to its notice that certain elements were involved in acts aimed at sabotaging Nigeria’s Olympics Invitational trials slated for this weekend in Yaba College of Technology. This act is tantamount to undermining Nigeria’s National interest in the area of Sports.  “For the avoidance of doubt, a successful AFN Congress held in Abuja to elect a new Board, led by Tony Okowa as President. This new board for the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) was inaugurated by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development on June 15th 2021.  “This should expectedly bring closure to all the distractions occasioned by the leadership crisis that ended with the expiration of the old AFN board,” the statement read in part. The Ministry however insisted that its focus remains on achieving an impressive podium performance for Nigeria at the Olympics, saying it has approved a series of qualifying events for Team Nigeria athletes to score final points required to qualify for the Olympic Games. Adding that anyone, under any guise, attempting to block participating countries and athletes from attending the events is consequently sabotaging Nigeria, and will be held accountable.  