Dangote Fertiliser Limited has formally commenced the production of urea in commercial quantity. Historically, government has intervened in the fertiliser value chain, but the private sector is making historical investments in driving fertiliser supply in-country. In what industry watchers have described as a potent step to liberalise the fertiliser market and further enhance agricultural production, president of the Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote told visitors to the plant that it has a capacity to churn out three million metric tonnes of urea per annum, and has been classified as the biggest project in the entire fertiliser industry in the world. He told top bankers including the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, who were on hand to witness the commencement of production  at the plant that “The Phase one of the project, which is estimated to cost $2.5 billion, is to manufacture 3mmtpa of urea per annum. This capacity will later be expanded to produce multi grades of fertiliser to meet soil, crop and climate specific requirements for the African continent.” According to Dangote, the fertiliser plant would make Nigeria the biggest urea exporting country in sub-Saharan Africa and biggest producer of polypropylene and polyethylene. The fertiliser complex consists of ammonia and urea plants with associated facilities and infrastructure to produce 3 MMTPA Urea. The complex comprises: 2 x 2,200 MTPD ammonia plants based on halder topsoe technology, 2 x 4,000 MTPD Melt urea plants based on snamprogetti technology, and 2 x 4,000 MTPD urea granulation Plants based on uhde technology. Dangote made the disclosure at the facility’s final inspection tour by the Central Bank Governor (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, on June 4, 2021 in Lagos. The CBN governor was at the plant in company of senior bankers, who consisted of chief executive officers of First Bank, GT Bank, Access Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa (UBA) and Zenith Bank. Dangote said: “The three million tonnes of Urea is certified, licenced by all regulatory authorities in Nigeria. We have gotten all licences from the National Security Adviser, the ministry of agriculture, Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), NAFDAC and all other authorities. “So, our urea will be in the market from Monday, June 7, 2021 and before the end of this month, we will start bringing in dollars from the first line that we have commissioned. The urea is a small percentage utilisation of gas that the country is actually flaring.” He said the company planned to saturate the market with urea and having already collected the database of farmers, the company would also ensure adequate training of farmers on best application of urea, saying “our primary interest is to saturate the local market. Training farmers will help to sustain farming activities and this will ensure food security.” He commended Emefiele and the other banks’ chief executive officers for their support towards the success of the plants, adding that the time has come for the country to move away from selling crude oil to value added petroleum products. He urged investors to target mostly gas-based industries so the country’s economy could improve and make a lot of dollars. “We need to look at transforming the industrial capacity of the country to earn dollars and at the same time do what we call import substitution,” Dangote advised. According to Emefiele, Nigeria has the potential to export at least 3.5 million metric tonnes of urea to different parts of the world. “Nigeria needs between one million metric to 1.5 million metric tonnes of urea to meet the local demand.  So, we have potential to export at least three to four million metrics tonnes of urea to different parts of the world. With this latest development, Nigeria has become one of the major producers of urea in the world. This for me, is a story, which no one would have believed would happen in Nigeria. “Nigeria now ranks amongst the leading countries in the production of urea in the world. This, for me is a story that no one would have believed will happen in Nigeria,” he said. He added: “The mechanical commissioning of the petrochemical and refinery plant would kick off by the end of the first quarter of next year. Dangote has committed that mechanical completion will be achieved by the end of this year and we are expecting that the refinery will be completed by the first quarter of next year.” Speaking on behalf of the bankers, the group managing director of Access Bank Plc, Mr. Herbert Wigwe, expressed joy for the support they gave to Dangote to create a world class manufacturing enterprise in Nigeria. “There was a lot of skepticism along the way as we moved on, and we asked; can this project be completed? Are we sure we have the right financing models and all of that? “Today we saw urea produced, we saw it bagged and we saw it loaded on trucks, and by Monday it will be in our markets. This for us is a very important milestone for Nigeria and Africa,” Wigwe said. Dangote Industries Limited is constructing the largest fertiliser plant in West Africa. The fertiliser complex project is located at the Lekki Free Zone (LFZ), in Lagos State, Nigeria. Phase one of the project which is estimated to cost $2.5 billion, is to manufacture three MMTPA of urea. The capacity will later be expanded to produce multiple grades of fertiliser to meet soil, crop and climate-specific requirement for the African continent. Fertiliser is essential for agribusiness in Africa. The coming on stream of Dangote Fertiliser would surely make Africa self-sufficient in food production and a net exporter of food to the world.