The federal government on Friday announced that it has “indefinitely suspended” Twitter’s operations within the country. The Ministry of Information and Culture announced this. It said, “The Federal Government has suspended, indefinitely, the operations of the microblogging and social networking service, Twitter, in Nigeria.” The statement, which was posted on the ministry’s official Twitter handle on Friday evening, accused the American social media company of allowing its platform to be used “for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence.” The suspension comes two days after Twitter deleted a tweet by President Muhammadu Buhari that was widely perceived as offensive by many Nigerian twitter users who flagged and reported it to Twitter. In that tweet on Tuesday, June 1, 2021, the Nigerian leader threatened to deal with people in the country’s southeast, who he blames for the recurring attacks on public infrastructure in the region. “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand,” Buhari wrote in the now-deleted tweet, referring to the brutal three-year Nigeria-Biafra War. The tweet was deleted the next day! The platform said the tweet had violated its policy on abusive behaviour. Information Minister Lai Mohammed criticised Twitter’s action and accused the social media giant of “double standards.” Mohammed also questioned Twitter’s motives in Nigeria, saying, “the mission of Twitter in Nigeria is very very suspect…” at a news conference after Buhari’s tweet was deleted. Reacting, Twitter said in a statement that it is “deeply concerned by the blocking of Twitter in Nigeria.” “Access to the free and #OpenInternet is an essential human right in modern society. We will work to restore access for all those in Nigeria who rely on Twitter to communicate and connect with the world,” it said in a statement. The ban on twitter by the federal government has raised issues of sovereignty and the right to freedom of expression. Many who support the banning of Twitter base their argument on Nigeria’s sovereign right to determine the existence of any business or otherwise in its territory and the need to protect and preserve the territorial integrity of the country. A sovereignty which the government believed has come under severe strains in recent time with the growing clamour by separatists agitating from various parts of the country! The supporters of the President’s action argue that for a president who swore to ensure the territorial integrity of Nigeria on coming to office, he is justified to ban Twitter if it has been found to pose a threat to Nigeria’s stability. Sovereignty is a political concept that refers to dominant power or supreme authority in a country. In a monarchy, supreme power resides in the “sovereign”, or king. In modern democracies, sovereign power rests with the people and is exercised through representative bodies such as Congress or Parliament. The Sovereign is the one who exercises power without limitation. The term also carries implications of autonomy; to have sovereign power is to be beyond the power of others to interfere. Beyond lawmaking power, two other (often contentious) aspects of sovereignty are eminent domain (the right of the sovereign to take private property for public use) and sovereign immunity (which offers the sovereign protection from lawsuits). Of course Nigeria is a democracy, as such the leader of the country may not have the absolute power to do, as he pleases. Already there are various groups threatening to challenge the power of the government to ban twitter saying that it is an infringement on their fundamental right of freedom of expression. It is also instructive that many of the countries where Twitter has been banned are not practicing democracy in the real sense of the word. These countries include; China where Twitter and several other Western social media networks are barred from operating in the country and authorities have spent several years reportedly cracking down on people who manage to circumvent the Twitter ban; North Korea where the government generally doesn’t allow its citizens to access foreign websites; Iran where Twitter and Facebook have been off-limits since 2009, amid protests and brutal crackdowns following former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s election win, though many Iranians use VPNs to dodge their country’s internet restrictions;: Egypt where the government cut off access to Twitter during the 2011 Arab Spring protests; Turkey banned Twitter for two weeks in 2014, Uganda cut off social media ahead of an election earlier this year, Pakistan has sporadically blocked social media sites for brief periods, and Turkmenistan has restricted access to Twitter according to the U.S. State Department. The ban has also many critics who believe that it is an assault on democracy and freedom of speech. They described the ban as a clampdown on freedom of expression and further shrinking of Nigeria’s civic space.
Reacting to the ban, Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka said he was not surprised by the president’s action, which is “unbecoming of a democratically elected president.” “In any case, this is a technical problem Nigerians should be able to work their way around. The field of free expression remains wide open, free of any dictatorial spasms!”
Amnesty International condemned the ban, describing it as “unlawful.” “Amnesty International condemns the Nigerian government’s suspension of Twitter in Nigeria — a social media platform widely used by Nigerians to exercise their human rights including their rights to freedom of expression and access to information. We call on the Nigerian authorities to immediately reverse the unlawful suspension and other plans to gag the media, repress civic space, and undermine
Nigerians’ human rights. “This action is clearly inconsistent and incompatible with Nigeria’s international obligations including under the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights.” From the positions of those who support the ban and those who do not, it is obvious that Nigerians are divided over the ban. No one could deny the President his power to ensure the territorial integrity of Nigeria. However, it should not be exercised in such a way that it could alienate our international friends who we need their support to get equipment to deal with Boko Haram, bandits, killer herdsmen and violent separatists threatening our nation.
In a nutshell the president has every right to fight those threatening the unity of the country through violence, just as much as law abiding Nigerians have fundamental right of freedom of expression and access to information in a democracy. It is such access to information that builds and sustains democracy and democratic norms. Aluta Continua!