The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Abia State government for the rehabilitation of Ogwe Golden Chicken Farm Estate in the state. Speaking during the MoU signing ceremony at the Abia State Government House, Umuahia at the weekend, the executive secretary/chief executive officer, NALDA, Prince Paul Ikonne, who was at the event with his team, told the governor and other cabinet officials that, President Muhammadu Buhari, had directed NALDA to rehabilitate all farm estates across the country. He added that Ogwe Golden Chicken in Ukwa East local government area of the State was inclusive. He said his team was in the state to formalise the understanding on the rehabilitation of the poultry farm estate, as his agency was partnering Abia to reduce unemployment in the state. The NALDA boss said the estate, which was being revamped by NALDA, would employ about 3,000 youths and that the first phase of the project would be inaugurated in December this year. He said, “The MoU for Ogwe Golden Chicken Farm Estate is simple, the Abia State government has made the land available for the facility. The President has mandated us to develop it in order to engage youths from that community. “NALDA programmes are community-based and this one will engage youths in the entire poultry value chain. What this means is that Abia will be known for egg production and finished chicken products.” Ikonne added that “Ogwe Golden Chicken is going to have many facilities because the land is over 300 acres and with that size we will have the processing and hatchery points, residential area, production area in terms of producing feeds, and the packaging area.” He further noted that Abia was entitled to three integrated farm estates and urged the governor to donate more lands for the two other remaining farm estates. Responding, Governor Ikpeazu thanked the President Buhari for appointing an indigene of Abia to head NALDA, as he assured the federal government that the agency’s boss would continue to deliver on the mandates assigned the agency. The governor further said that the NALDA helmsman had inspired hope through the agency for Nigerian youths, stressing that agriculture is a significant sector that needed quality personnel for proper management. He said, “We applaud NALDA’s drive to ensure local participation in its programmes to create local economies and power houses to grow the country’s Gross Domestic Product and we assure the President that the chief executive of NALDA will continue to deliver.” The governor also pledged the support of his state to the federal government in the actualisation of the farm estate and other projects championed by NALDA in Abia State. Ikpeazu said the Ogwe Chicken project intervention showed that the federal government had come to operationalise the facility, as the 3,000 persons who would work there would be so excited to see the poultry farm estate revamped. This came as the NALDA boss also announced that the agency was establishing fish ponds meant for women in both Abia and Borno states. He said the fish ponds were being established by his agency under NALDA’s Women in Fishery Programme, adding that 50 of the ponds were being constructed in the Fish Village in Ikwuano local government area of Abia State. For Borno State, Ikonne said the ponds were being established in 50 different locations, while about 50 ponds in 10 locations in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, would be inaugurated in October this year. The NALDA boss added, “Again, NALDA’s mandate is to make sure we achieve food security and not only for our consumption but for export in order to earn foreign currency. “The ponds in Abia State are in one location, but 50 in 50 locations in Maiduguri, Borno State. This is because the governor of Borno has provided the land and all is set. “As we speak, 50 ponds in 10 locations are going on and we expect that it will be inaugurated by October.” Ikonne explained that facility in Ikwuano in Abia was being established as a fish village. He said, “It will have the hatchery, rearing, processing and packaging points, as well as the crop area where we will grow maize and others in order to produce feeds for the fish. “But the one in the North is the entire value chain that has residential areas and others and this is basically because of the size and land mass that is made available.” He enjoined women in the locations where the facilities were being established to take advantage of the ponds to not only support their families but also grow their local economies.