Ahead of Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifiers and rescheduled 2021 African Cup of Nations in Cameroon, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria Limited have signed a contractual agreement that made Reckitt’s product, Dettol, the official hygiene partner of the Super Eagles. The general manager, Sub-Saharan Africa, Reckitt, Akbar Ali Shah, at the unveiling ceremony in Lagos, on Thursday, said Dettol will work closely with NFF to provide hygiene support for the audience and football fans of Nigeria at the tournaments. Shah said as important as passion and tenacity are, they can only be possible if one is in good health, adding that there is no better time to emphasize health than this COVID-19 era. He said, “We are in unprecedented times, journeying through uncharted territory and navigating a global pandemic that has changed the way we live, socialize and do business. It has even changed the way we play and experience the beautiful game of football. So we must now be more conscious of our health than ever before.” He said, every year, the Super Eagles fly Nigeria’s flag high on the continental and global football stage and behind every kick of the ball, every goal, every celebration is the spirit of over 200 million people willing on their team. “We understand the need to prioritize hygiene and health with the same fervour. A vital part of healthy living is good hygiene, and no other brand in Nigeria epitomizes this like Dettol. For over 50 years, Dettol has helped to protect Nigerian lives and reduce the burden of illnesses,” he said. To keep the players in good health, powering them on their quest to entertain Nigerians and bring home the 2021 African Cup of Nations and the 2022 FIFA World Cup, the general manager said Dettol will provide hygienic protection for the Super Eagles during their pre and post-match activities as it already does in several Nigerian homes. “Dettol will also work hand in hand with NFF to provide hygiene support for the football fans of Nigeria,” he added. Responding, NFF President Amaju Pinnick, said, “Our national team is poised not only to take on the best in the game but to remain on top. But this laudable feat would be unachievable if their health is compromised. We value Dettol’s critical support, especially in this pandemic era when everyone is encouraged to prioritise their health and safety.”