The dream of every entrepreneur is to see his or her business grow bigger to become a household name in the society. This is the dream of Sydney Imuetinyan Aigbogun, chief executive officer (CEO) of CashBox, a digital savings platform owned by Cashbox Global Services Limited, who believes that his company has the potentials of becoming a pan-African online saving platform in the nearest future. “In the next 10 years, I see CashBox being a pan African company located in different parts of Africa and beyond. We should also be listed in the stock exchange by then. In 10 years, I should have stepped down as the CEO while someone else appointed by the board takes that seat,” Aigbogun said. LEADERSHIP reports that CashBox, which came into operation in 2019, is an online savings platform, with the business objective and target to help thousands of users cultivate a healthy saving habit, adding that “users can easily download our app on android and iOS, link their ATM card to the app and create a savings plan stating how much they would like to save and the frequency swell. Everything is controlled by the user from the app.” He further revealed that when the business debuted in Nigeria’s financial system, there were challenges in few months of operation, but all the challenges were overcome. “Most of our challenges were in the first year and we handled that very well. Right now, we just want to keep doing everything we can to grow rapidly while making impact on our tens of thousands of users. We want to be a force to reckon with whenever financial services are mentioned,” he added. Recalling how Cashbox survived COVID-19 lockdown, Aigbogun who studied B.Sc Finance from the prestigious University of Lagos, said COVID-19 was a shocker to the world especially businesses, adding that no one ever imagined the world would shut down. “The moment everything shut down and we had to work from home, myself and the team had a meeting and we knew we just had to make the best of what we had. We had to come up with a narrative that would make sense to people and encourage them to save while the world was locked down “People weren’t going to work, no eat out, no cinemas, no social event, so it also meant people weren’t spending money. “So, we started campaigns on social media encouraging people to start saving the money they would have ordinarily spent when the world was normal and that really drove our savings pool higher,” he said. CashBox makes saving effortless, motivating, fun and absolutely free. It believes in financial inclusion and have created a product that will help millions of people change their savings habit. Free to signup, and users also get paid interests on their savings. CashBox has been operating in the following core values, which include Service Excellence, Transparency, Integrity, Research & Development and Structure https://leadership.ng/cashbox-helps-people-make-smart-financial-decisions-sydney/ 