Development Gateway, International Fertiliser Development Centre (IFDC), Africafertilizer.org (AFO) and the African Fertiliser and Agribusiness Partnership (AFAP) will on June 23, 2021, launch the VIFAA Nigeria dashboard. Concerned about non-availability of accurate data on supply, demand and use of fertiliser in Nigeria, the VIFAA partners are set to launch a new data dashboard that will aid key decision-making in Nigeria’s fertiliser sector. The Visualising Insights on Fertiliser for African Agriculture (VIFAA) Dashboard, is a “one-stop-shop” for trustworthy, visually appealing information that is key to understanding Nigeria’s fertiliser sector. In partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the partners have collaborated with, among others, the federal ministry of agriculture and rural development, quantitative engineering design (QED), and the private sector, as well as research institutions. In a statement, the partners noted that the publicly available and co-designed dashboard aims to address key decision-making needs. “The dashboard contains 14 core indicators, such as fertiliser retail price, cropland under production, and monthly product imports, to highlight and visualise key aspects of Nigeria’s fertiliser supply chain,” the statement said. “Partners worked extensively through group and individual sessions to gather feedback on data priorities, receiving input from stakeholders across institutions.” Data for the dashboard comes from a broad range of private and public fertiliser stakeholders, with Africafertilizer.org gathering, validating, and updating the data on a regular basis.”
Private sector partners who commented on the dashboard said it is a trustworthy source and credible enough to be used by everyone in the sector. They say it carries along all the stakeholders, which is good for visibility and usage of data. The VIFAA partners worked to generate comprehensive cropland under production maps, some of the first in Nigeria’s recent history. Collaborating with machine learning and satellite imagery experts, QED resulted in the generation of an updated map that provides information on the total land under production in Nigeria; what percentage is under production versus uncultivated; and how production breaks down by state and geopolitical zones. It is believed that the dashboard and use of innovative tools to fill data gaps are just the beginning of boosting data quality and use across Nigeria’s fertiliser sector. As another private sector partner noted, “I think the Dashboard reduces the headache for many of us sourcing consistent, trustworthy data when you’re trying to implement strategic decisions.” It is believed that the dashboard and use of innovative tools to fill data gaps are just the beginning of boosting data quality and use across Nigeria’s fertiliser sector. As another private sector partner noted, “I think the Dashboard reduces the headache for many of us sourcing consistent, trustworthy data when you’re trying to implement strategic decisions.” The public can access the live stream launch event on http://go.vifaanigeria.org/Launch.