I’m Ace musician, Uyinmwen Omosigho, aka Don Vs, has declared his readiness to team up for a massive collaboration with Nigerian Grammy winners, Burma Boy and Wizkid, to sing a smash hit and banging song that will shake the world music stage. Europe based Don Vs has also expressed optimism of collaborating with other celebrity Nigerian music stars to produce great songs whenever the opportunity presents itself. Speaking in an interview with journalists from his base, Don Vs said, “Collaboration with such artistes like Burna Boy and Wizkid will be fantastic because these two artistes have won Grammy Awards and doing a duet with them will be so great and thrilling for our fans.” The mega star recently narrated how the journey all began in 2004 in far away Benin City, the Edo state capital. “I don’t have a specific artiste to work with but I will work with any of the artistes depending on the song. So all artistes are good and I will work with as many I can work with, when the time comes. “I started my music career back then in Nigeria in 2004, Benin City was my starting point. I was on a TV show called Beat and Laugh at EBS, Edo Broadcasting Service,” he revealed. Collaboration is one of the strategies both new and young artistes do not toy with and as such, his proposal to work with Nigerian artistes can only be sweet music to ears. Who knows what a collaboration with the likes of Burna Boy, Wizkid and Davido will to Don Vs career in the few years ahead. According to Don Vs, his best moment as an artiste in the Diaspora is “seeing myself passing a message to the world through my music, and hearing my song everywhere here in the Diaspora.” As a proof to his talent, Don Vs is a proud winner of many laurels including
Best song of the year ABMA Award Italy. Others include Most Popular artiste of the Year 2018, (Creativity Merit Award, Belgium); Best artist song of the year 2018 (Creativity Reality Merit Award, Belgium) as well as Best Europe Artist of the year 2018 (Money is money Ent. Awards). Others include Diaspora Artist of the Year 2019 (Edo United union Roma, Lazio, Italy); Diapora Artist of the Year 2019 (Godsent Foundation (Award) and the Diaspora Artiste of the Year (Nega 2019 Germany).