The federal government has accused some unpatriotic citizens of Nigeria thwarting some laudable efforts of the government through wanton destruction of critical infrastructure, describing such as a form of terrorism. Speaking during a town hall meeting on Protection of Public Infrastructure in Abuja yesterday, the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, bemoaned the incessant attacks on critical public facilities such as police stations and INEC offices. Mohammed added that the removal of rail tracks causes train derailment, with deadly consequences.
‘’Tampering with aviation infrastructure endangers the lives of air passengers. Attacks on police stations have left many police personnel dead. These are all acts of terror,’’ he said. Mohammed said since coming into office in 2015, the Muhammadu Buhari administration has embarked on rapid economic growth with equity via people-centered economic management as well as prioritizing human capital development through enhanced social services and infrastructure development. He said this explains why the federal government deliberately adopted an inclusive development framework that spreads infrastructure to all sections of the country. ‘’However, in recent times, such laudable efforts of the government are being thwarted by some unpatriotic citizens through wanton destruction of critical infrastructure, thereby depriving the greater citizenry – for whose benefits these projects and services are provided – from enjoying them,’’ he said. In his presentation, the minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola decried abuses of the federal highway. He said there are also undue interference with and allocation of lands within the right of way of federal highways, local and state governments and other MDAs without recourse to the ministry. Fashola also decried unauthorised cutting and excavation across the highway pavement and shoulders for the installation of utilities. On his part, the minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, said a law should be passed in the National Assembly seeking death penalty for vandals.