 Niger State government has described teachers as “immeasurable tools for nation-building as well as a veritable instrument for social change”. Governor Abubakar Sani Bello stated this at the 2021 Teachers’ Day Award celebration held at the Justice Idris Legbo Kutigi International Conference Centre , Minna. The annual Teachers’ Day Award is aimed at encouraging teachers for their invaluable role in imparting knowledge and the development of humanity in line with the United Nations adopted Sustainable Development Goal for Education, which requires teachers to enjoy professional independence, appropriate recognition and tools needed to deliver quality education. The governor who was represented by his deputy, AlhajiAhmed Mohammed Kesto, said the role of teachers cannot be overemphasised as without them the quality students cannot be raised hence the need to empower teachers. According to him, “Indeed teachers are the most veritable stakeholders in the education system.The empowerment of teachers is a priority to us because we cannot raise the quality of our students without first standardizing the quality of those who are to impart on the character and knowledge that we wish for our students at all level of education in the state.” Governor Sani Bello stressed that identifying and awarding outstanding teachers was timely and that efforts are on to create a sustainable education system in the state. The governor then commended the Niger State Universal Basic Education Board for the giant stride to boost teaching and learning through empowering the education managers and teachers. He assured teachers of continuous government efforts towards raising the standards of teachers, adding that the state government has established a model Teacher Professional Development Institute to support teacher education programme.  Hight point of the occasion was the presentation of awards of excellence and gifts to Education Secretaries, school Principals, Headteachers and Class Teachers for their dedication and commitment to their jobs.  Also awarded by the NSUBEB included Governor,  Abubakar Sani Bello, commissioner for Education, Hajiya Hannatu Salihu.  Others are Oando, Mainstream Foundation, UNICEF, NUT Niger State Chapter, for partnering and contributing to the growth and development in the state educational sector.  Earlier, in his remarks, the chairman, Niger State Universal Basic Education (NSUBEB)  Dr. Isah Adamu commended teachers for their dedication and commitment to work, stressing that they are the foundation of other professions.  Speaking on behalf of the awardees, the Education Secretary, Kontagora Local Government appreciated the NSUBEB for recognising their efforts and assured of more commitments to work.