Professionals in the nation’s health and construction sectors have raised concern over inaccessibility of quality healthcare in Nigeria, saying it is embarrassing that the country’s healthcare network is being rated among the worst in the world. Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday to herald the formal launch of Modular Healthcare Facility in Lagos, the Group Managing Director, Alpha Mead Group Engineer Femi Akintunde noted that the nation’s healthcare space could be the best globally if the government and stakeholders get it right. According to him, the reports indicating that Nigeria has 40,345 registered hospitals and clinics to serve the 201 million population is appalling, adding that the statistics simply implies that one healthcare facility is responsible for an estimated five million Nigerians. As a way out of the woods, he explained that after a successful pilot of the company’s foray into Healthcare at Gbagada General Hospital, and Lagos University Teaching (LUTH), the need to make quality healthcare accessible to more Nigeria became even more pressing. He said, “So we went back to the drawing board. We noted that some of the issues slowing down the government and private sector programmes in making healthcare accessible for all are; how long it takes to set up a healthcare facility, inadequate amount of healthcare workers, lack of the required equipment and sometimes; even the terrain or location where these healthcare facilities will be constructed. “To address these issues, we came up with the Modular Healthcare Facility (MHF). The whole idea of the MHF is to aggressively drive the penetration of healthcare facilities in Nigeria by reducing the construction timeline of a healthcare. facility to less than 30 days–saving the time lost to design, construction, equipment installation and commissioning of regular brick and mortar healthcare facilities, which sometimes run into years”. Also speaking, the Managing Director, Alpha Mead Healthcare and Management Services (AMHS) Kunle Omidiora said,’’ From whatever lens one chooses to view the challenges with the healthcare sector in Nigeria today; whether financial, personnel, equipment, systems or technologies; the biggest challenge with Nigeria’s healthcare sector is that of access to quality healthcare”.