The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offence Commission (ICPC), Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and other relevant agencies, have inaugurated a Port Standing Task Team in the Eastern Ports of Port Harcourt and Onne. The team, made up of officers of ICPC, NSC, NPA and the Directorate of State Services (DSS), was charged with the primary duty of ensuring that standard procedures were followed in carrying out transactions at the ports. The development is part of the ongoing collaboration to ensure the full implementation of the Nigerian Ports Process Manual (NPPM). The team comprised three officials of the ICPC, five personnel from the DSS, three staff of NSC and two staff of the NPA. The team is to strictly carry out necessary anti-corruption activities that would help dismantle the corruption network fuelling the traffic logjam within the port area. It is also to carry out regular operations in the ports to generate evidence-based infractions against the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), NPPM and the Ease of Doing Business Policy of Federal Government. The Port Standing Task Team is to engage in quick enforcement actions including sting operations on identified areas based on regular intelligence. ICPC head of investigation, Prince Hassan Mohammed, who represented the ICPC at inauguration, charged the team to be diligent in carrying out their duties, stating that the team’s activities are geared towards the need to reduce corruption in Nigeria. Also speaking at the event, the zonal director, South-South of the NSC, Ogor Israel, said the basic aim of setting up the task team was to ensure efficiency and make Nigerian ports one of the best places to do business. The acting managing director of NPA, Mohammed Koko, in his goodwill message said the NPPM is fully funded by the NPA as part of its contribution towards creating a transparent and efficient port system that aligns with the concept of the Presidential Order on Ease of Doing Bussing in the Nigerian Port Sector. Other stakeholders such as Terminal Operators and Cargo Owners, who spoke at the inauguration, promised to support the team with information and reports of any observed infraction.