The forum of former governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the party’s leadership to mobilise Nigerians to push for the passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill before the National Assembly. The former governors also said they would bury their personal interests to ensure that they take over power in 2023. A communiqué issued at the end of their meeting Wednesday signed by the director, media and communications to Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu, the chairman, Former PDP Governors’ Forum, Bala B. Bitrus, said the party must be serious if it wants to take over power in 2023. “We are urging the leadership of the party to mobilize civil society and other Non-Governmental Organisations in the country as well as all Nigerians to help push for the amendment of the Electoral Bill which the meeting noted is a necessary step towards guaranteeing credible elections in the country and a fortress for good governance in Nigeria,” the communiqué said while noting with serious concern the continuous decadence in Nigeria’s polity. “We will show discipline, decorum and respect amongst all members of the party. This would show Nigerians that the PDP is a more serious political party that is ready to take over the ruins of power, come 2023,” the communiqué said, stressing, “The party hierarchy should strive to ensure that key stakeholders and critical players within the party ensure proper synergy within the party as a precondition and key to win the next general elections in 2023.” The meeting commended the party’s Reconciliation and Strategy Committee for a job well done and for the successes recorded so far in uniting the party members across the country. It similarly enjoined members of the party to cultivate the virtue of forgiveness, love, peace, maturity and tolerance of one another. The meeting called on all former governors in the country, irrespective of their political lining, affiliations and sympathy, to come together to mainstream in the search for a workable solution to the myriad security challenges bedeviling the country.