Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed Monday 28th June, 2021 for the commencement of Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) nationwide. The commission said it was unfortunate that candidates were being determined through litigation elections had been concluded and winners declared by INEC. Speaking in Abuja yesterday at the second quarterly meeting with political parties, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the creation of a portal for CVR would enable Nigerians to commence their registration online before concluding the process physically at designated centres. Yakubu, who demonstrated how the proposed online registration will proceed, including a presentation of the new INEC Voter Enrollment Device (IVED), reminded political parties about the imperative of complying with the provisions of the law as well as our regulations governing the conduct of party primaries and nomination of candidates. He said, “The commission is not happy that candidates for elections are now being determined through litigation long after elections have been concluded and winners declared by INEC.”  “The problem lies squarely with the conduct of party primaries and nomination of candidates by some political parties. We urge you to hold yourselves to the same high standard of free, fair, and credible elections that you hold INEC in all elections.  “You must ensure strict compliance with your party Constitutions, the law, and the Commission’s regulations and guidelines on party primaries in particular and the management of party affairs in general.  “After all, Nigerians only exercise their democratic right to elect leaders from the candidates presented by political parties. Electing good leaders begins with the quality of primaries conducted by political parties. We will do our part to ensure that our elections continue to improve.”  Addressing the meeting, the national chairman, Inter-Party Advisory Council, (IPAC) Dr. Leonard Nzenwa, said as preparation for the resumption of CVR and other electoral activities continue ahead of the November 6, 2021 Anambra Gubernatorial Polls, he encouraged the commission to put its best leg forward and help build a virile and strong election.  He said IPAC was further enthused with the successful unveiling of 56, 872 polling units yesterday bringing the total number of polling units to 176, 846 in the country and breaking the 25-year jinx of failed efforts.  INEC Reassures on CVR Ahead of 2023(Opens in a new browser tab) 