By Nnamdi Mbawike, Enugu. Enugu State Government  has    commenced the construction of flyover project at the T-Junction-Nike Road as scheduled. A government team led by the commissioner for information, Hon. Barr, Chidi Aroh visited the construction yard of the IDC Construction Limited, during which the contractor said it would deliver the project before the end of 2021. Aroh was accompanied by his Works counterpart, Hon. Greg Nnani, and that of Housing, Hon. Vitus Okechi. Speaking with journalists after interfacing with the contractor, Aroh said all was now set for the project to commence in earnest. He said Enugu people and indeed well meaning Nigerians were delighted over the project, which he said would ease vehicular traffic upon completion. “Today, we have seen the level of preparedness of IDC, the company that the government has contracted to do the T-Junction Flyover Bridge. “I am sure that we are all aware that the government has as a result of this construction directed that the road be shut down from 12 midnight today to allow construction work to start in earnest. “Part of our responsibility is to once more inform the people that we are shutting down this road by 12 midnight; we have created five diversions; the announcements have been there in the radio; at the point of each diversion, we have put road signs; we are not stopping at that, we are going to put bigger billboards; we are going to ensure that our people don’t suffer too much while this massive work is going on,” Aroh said. He said, “our responsibility in the next 48 hours is to ensure that work starts in earnest. Three links to T-Junction would be closed by 12 midnight today; part of why we are here is to see the preparedness of the contractor. Over there, you can see the concrete blockages, by tomorrow the actual setting out will begin. “The five designated lanes for diversion are on air, we will all make sure that this big project is realized; Enugu people are waiting, the word is waiting, it is a state-of-the-art bridge and we can’t wait any longer to have it.” He added that, “the state government has been very proactive in planning for this construction; mid last year, we commissioned the first by-pass, Nike Road by-pass, it is in anticipation that we will do this project. From just after Nike Road, you head to Umuchigbo, Harmony Estate layout, Adoration Pilgrimage Centre and Orie Emene, it is one of the major roads that will take traffic, especially articulated vehicles. We advise all articulated vehicles to take that route. “Then, if you are coming from NOWAS, get to Zenith Bank, UBA, you go left, then at a Roundabout, you turn and hit Dental Technology, then you tee off to Bishop Shanahan, that is on the lext axis, you now meet Ugbene 2, Ugbo Ndafe, then to Local Government Headquarters. “If you are also coming from the Timber, very close to where we are now, we have recently put some culverts to ensure that people pass, in anticipation that this project will go through; when you pass through that place, you go through Igwe Edward Nnaji Palace, you now come to the Development Centre, you take the Old Road, and still hit Umuchigbo. “If you are coming from Abakpa Nike, Nike Grammar School, you cross the bridge, you come to St. Theresa, you tee off to the right, to Ogwuago, from Ogwuago you go down to Ugwuaku Layout, you are at the same Nike Lake Harmony bypass. “We are appealing to our people to be patient with us; they should put enough care while passing through these roads; it is going to take some time but it is worth it.” On his part, the project manager of IDC, Mr, Yussef said the company was ready to hit the ground running, assuring that, “we were awarded this project with the duration of one year, but we promise to do our best to deliver within less than one year for sure. “We don’t want to reach the deadline; with the promise that the funds are available, for sure we will try to deliver before the end of 2021, we deliver projects on time; we have the machines; what you see here is a very small sample of what you will see in the next two weeks.” In a remark, the Chairman of Enugu East Local Government Area, Hon. Alex Okezie lauded the Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Dr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi over the project, adding that “the governor has done all the needful, the contractor will now go to the site, any structure he marks, we will inform the owner to remove it