“7th Republic”, an NGO of youths drawn from different background across the country, has called on former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to run for the  office of  president in the 2023  polls.  The group made the call at a news conference on Thursday in Abuja.  Mr  Kazeem Tanimu, Initiator and Co-convener  of  “7th Republic”, who spoke on behalf of the group, said the group was creating awareness towards “ creating a nation that works for everyone.”  He said although the “7th Republic” believes in the ‘Not Too Young to Run” mantra, present challenges facing the country were too daunting for a young  president to handle.  “We are a coalition of people with no political affiliations and believers in the interest of our country and the emergence of a leader   with the capacity to lead us in the right direction.  “You may think that 2023 is still far, but the reason we are talking about it now is that we want youths across the country to see reasons to speak with one voice.  “The challenges facing our country requires a leader we can trust stabilise things, unify us and thereafter hand over power to the youths, and we believe Atiku is the right person. “We don’t want an Hausa, Ibo or Yoruba president come 2023, we simply want a Nigerian president and that is what Atiku represents. “We are still making consultations as youths, and we will approach him very soon in case he is not considering  to  run come 2023. “Donald Trump was 77 years when he left office , and  Joe Biden is 78, so leadership is more about competence and capacity  than age,” he said. Tanimu noted that successive leadership failure and corruption over the years have left ordinary Nigerians suffering in the midst of plenty. .He said that every state of the country was richly blessed with natural resources but had suffered from past bad leadership and sustained political fraud. He urged youths to shun politicians who always divide them along ethnic and religious lines “The youths should go beyond social media discussions and go register and  collect their  voter cards . “Youths need to be united just as they did during the EndSARs protest, because as  youth  your first  interest should be that   you  are a Nigerian and not a  Moslem or a Christian “I don’t have the power to influence people to vote for who I will vote for, but let them get their voters card to be actively involved in the whole  process¸”he said.