By Johnson Eze  | Agriculture is one of the most strategic sectors in the economy of any nation. Aside from its unique role of enhancing food security for the  population, it is indispensable in the sustenance of industries as it  produces cash crops that constitute raw materials for manufacturing  activities. Almost everybody in Nigeria, Africa and in fact most  developing countries of the world is exposed to agricultural activity as it is naturally a culture, occupation and vocation for many. Essentially, the sector is the most labour-intensive and generates the  highest number of employment for the people – accounting for over 34.66% of jobs in Nigeria for 2020 alone. It is in recognition of this overriding importance, that the Nigerian  government liberalised the sector as an area of business civil  servants are permitted to engage in while still occupying government office. In  that sense, proceeds from agricultural business can go a long way in  augmenting salaries and supporting the national economy. For agro-enterprise to be profitable, impactful, and contribute meaningfully to the GDP and food security program of the nation, participants have to do it with innovation, intelligence  and acumen  to compete favourably in modern day business realities that often have global outlook for sustainability. An obvious example is the Gazewa Commodity Market and Exchange GCMX – a pristine agricultural investment initiative recently established in Gazewa suburb of Kano State that has been receiving accolades in the ways and manner it is reinventing and catalysing economic activities especially in agriculture and its entire value chain. In fact, Gazewa Commodity Market and Exchange is an economic wonder of  the generation. A delegation of Kano Concerned Citizens Initiative led by Alhaji Bashir Tofa who visited the place described the facility as  “a 250 hectres business hub for farmers, commodity traders,  manufacturers and commodity exchange”. A report by an economic policy analyst described it as high ranking in international best practices in agricultural investment, stating that the investors and promoters reasoned globally  and acted locally to impact  the Nigerian society. The promoters and investors’ expertise, foresight and knowledge of wealth creation as conceived in relation to it were done in the best interest of the  agro-economy which holds a lot of potential for the nation. Reminiscent of the era of the regional governments when the Northern Region  Marketing Board was assisting farmers sell their agricultural produce at good prices and at the same time export some overseas for revenue  generation, GCMX Ltd is a modern day business hub that provides  limitless opportunities for millions of famers with much more services  in the agriculture value chain . It is indeed an establishment that has come to touch the lives of not just Kano indigenes, but the northern region as a whole. Consequently when some online media organisations had published some negative articles about it they attracted the resentment of many  opinion analysts who described such publication as a desperate effort to  tarnish the image of a well-established organization assisting farmers  out of their predicament. The National Secretary of a CSO, Media Network  Against Corruption, Comrade Michael Etim, while reacting to the publication,  condemned those propagating  negative views against the company, describing them as fake news mongers, adding that the promoters of Gazewa are competent and have groomed the company to  enviable status. Success, he said, has many  parents, while failure is an orphan. He said, we must all learn to support great ideas in the society and commend the people behind them. – Johnson is the publisher of Instant Africa Magazine and writes from Abuja   