BY OLAWALE AYENI, Abuja Chief executive officer, Continental Secretariat African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) Prof Eddy Maloka has called on youths in Africa to embrace selfless, dedicated and exemplary leadership toward the development of the continent. He stated this yesterday at the ongoing second review of APRM and official launching of Youth Vanguard Unit in Nigeria which had the theme “African Youth: The Hope of Good Governance.” He urged the youth to be selfless, dedicated, and make exemplary leadership their watchword. “We look forward to collaboration between APRM Nigeria Youth Vanguard and the APRM Youth Network to promote synergy and effectiveness among African youths. Youth are the strength of nation. I want Africa to know that without the youth the continent may not grow,” he said. While speaking about the ongoing Second Review Process of Nigeria, he said, “The continent awaits the Country Self-Assessment Report (CSAR) so
that others can learn from things the country is doing well and its efforts in surmounting the challenges.” In her remarks, chief executive officer, APRM Nigeria, Princess Gloria Akobundu, revealed that the Youth Vanguard was borne out of several engagements between APRM secretariat and the youths across the country. Akobundu, who also doubles as the national coordinator, African Union Development Agency- New Partnership for Africa’s Development ( AUDA-NEPAD) Nigeria set the event on motion saying “The youth population in Nigeria is huge and cannot be neglected, that is why we have to bring them on a platform that can be used to compete positively and actively with their counterparts in the continent. “That will help us achieve Nigeria We Want’ andAfrica We Want’ as enshrined in African Union (AU) Agenda 2063 and United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 2030.” She mentioned various efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari to give sense of belongings to Nigerian youths, including signing into law the,
Not Too Young To Run Bill in 2018, which further widened the net for youths participation in governance in the country.