By AZA MSUE and NONYE EKWENUGO, Kaduna The Kaduna State government, yesterday, said the military foiled kidnap of students as bandits invaded Government Science Secondary School, Ikara. Commissioner for internal security and home affairs, Samuel Aruwan,  at a news conference in Kaduna, explained that suspected bandits invaded the school in the early hours of Sunday to abduct students but wasfoiled by the military. He said fortunately, the students utilised the security warning system in place: “and were thus able to alert security forces in the area.” Aruwan added that the security forces comprising the troops of the Nigerian Army, Police and some security volunteers moved swiftly to the school and engaged the bandits, forcing them to flee. Aruwan said following a head count by the school management:” the Kaduna State Government can confirm to you that all 307 students have been verified safe and present. The attempted kidnap was foiled  completely and no student was taken from the school.” He said the military and police were still on the trail of the armed bandits. The commissioner said: “Between the late hours of Saturday night and the early hours of today, suspected bandits stormed the Government Science Secondary School, Ikara, Ikara local government area, in an attempt to kidnap students.  “Following a head count by the school management, the Kaduna State Government can confirm to you that all 307 students have been verified safe and present. The attempted kidnap was foiled completely and no student was taken from the school. The images provided by the Nigerian Army can attest to this, and will be shared with you.   “Similarly, around Ifira village in Igabi local government area, bandits attempted to attack a senior staff quarters around the Kaduna Airport general area. This attempt was also foiled as troops of the Nigerian Air Force and the Nigerian Army engaged and repelled them, with several escaping with gunshot wounds.  “The Kaduna State Government acknowledges the efforts of the security agencies in the recent rescue of 180 students in the vicinity of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka. These efforts have being mentioned in interviews given by some of the rescued students,” Aruwan said.  