By Ray Morphy  | A bill for the removal of local government as a constitutionally  recognised and funded tier of government in Nigeria was recently  considered in the House of Representatives.  Sponsored by Hon. Solomon  Bob (PDP, Rivers), the Bill was read for the first time on November  24, 2020. According to its explanatory memorandum, the “Bill seeks to remove  local government as a tier of government in the Constitution of the  Federal Republic of Nigeria and vest their creation, powers and  funding exclusively in the state Houses of Assembly in accordance with  the principle and practice of true federalism in a culturally diverse  and territorially extensive country like Nigeria.” Expectedly, the local governments and local government workers are up  in arms against the bill. And rightly so! The Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, NULGE, has threatened to shut down the 774 local  government  areas in the country over the plan by the National Assembly to remove  the local government as the third tier of government from the  constitution. The union said that it would be left with no other  option than to shut down the 774 council areas if the lawmakers went  ahead with the proposal. National president of NULGE, Comrade Ambali Olatunji who made this  known while speaking to a journalists in Abuja, warned that the union  would not hesitate to mobilise its members on a mass protest to the  National Assembly to resist what they described as “anti-people plot.” According to him, “We also know that this is a serious challenge to  local government, and we are saying this, very soon if we engage them  (NASS) and the leadership is not doing what is needful, we might  direct our members to shut down the country in all the 774 local  government, but we hope that they will not allow it to degenerate to  that level. Once you delist local government as a tier of government,  it shows that you have killed local government. Even, now that the  local government remains a tier of government, the governors are  pauperising local government and there are a lot of swindling of local  government funds. “That’s why they are not allowing democratic elected leadership at the  local government level. What they are doing is to appoint their  cronies as caretakers in local government so that they will  continuously impoverish local government.” As the NULGE noted the local government has been pauperized and  impoverished by the state governors. Even the election of local  government officials through the State Independent Electoral  Commissions (SIECs) has become a sham where seats are merely allocated  to the ruling party in the states. Let us admit that in most local governments there is very little going  on, but that cannot be the fault of the local governments as the state  governors have usurped their powers and  their funds. The constitution gives a lot of responsibilities to local  governments. These include; consideration and making of  recommendations to a State Commission on Economic Planning or any  similar body; Collection of rates, radio  and television licenses; Establishment and maintenance of cemeteries,  burial grounds and homes for the destitute or infirm; Licensing of bicycles, trucks (other than mechanically-propelled trucks), canoes,  wheel barrows and carts; Establishment, maintenance and regulation of slaughter houses,  slaughter slabs, markets, motor parks and public conveniences;  Construction and maintenance of roads, streets, streets lightings,  drains and other public highways, parks,  gardens, open spaces, or such public facilities as may be prescribed from time to time by the House of Assembly of a State; Naming of roads  and streets, and numbering of houses; Provision and maintenance of  public conveniences, sewage and refuse disposal; registration of all birth, death and marriages;  assessment of privately owned houses or tenements for the purpose of  levying such rates as may be prescribed by the House of Assembly of a  State; and Control and regulation of  movement and keeping of pets of all descriptions; out-door advertising  and hoarding, shops, kiosks, restaurants, bakeries and other places  for the sale of food to the public, laundries and licensing for the  sale liquor. Moreover, apart from the aforementioned exclusive functions, local  government is also empowered by the same constitution to provide and  maintain primary, adult and vocational education; the development of  agriculture and natural resources other than the exploitation of minerals, the provision and maintenance of health services! It is worthy to note that these roles are performed exclusively by the local government as enshrined by the constitution of the country. But  on the other hand, some other roles are concurrently played with the  state government. Among these includes primary education, agriculture,  health and other functions that may be conferred on local government  by the House of Assembly of the State. In view of this, it can be observed that the roles and responsibilities of local government are quite enormous and demanding. Sadly local governments have not been able to effectively perform  their constitutional responsibilities due  to the following reasons; Existence of triple laws: technically, local  governments in Nigeria operate under the three levels of legislative  frameworks. There are Act of National Assembly, Laws of State Assembly  and the Byelaws of  Legislative Councils. These triple laws regulating the affairs of the  local governments render them powerless and cannot decide what is goo  for their people. This is one of the constitutional hitches affecting  the smooth operation of the  local governments in Nigeria. Absence of democratically elected local government councils. The 1999  constitution provides that the system of local government should be  based on democratically elected local government council and each  state of the federation is expected to recognise its existence. The  constitution made it clear that the affairs of the local government  should be piloted by duly elected persons based on the wishes of the people. But unfortunately, there is an adverse application of the  constitutional provision. Looking at those that are saddled with the powers or responsibilities to run the affairs as chairmen of the local  governments, they are not elected by the people but instead they are  appointed by the state governors. Therefore, the issue of appointing  caretaker committee to head the local governments by the state  governors has become the order of the day. Most or almost all the  states in Nigeria have reduced the tenure of local government chairmen  from four or three years to two years. It has been the practice of the  state governors when they come on board to appoint loyalists to serve  as caretaker chairmen. Some governors may be in power for eight years  but they will only allow election may be once or at most twice for the  whole period of their tenure. They end up appointing cronies as  caretakers. The caretaker chairmen only last if they dance to the  tunes of the government but were they act contrary to governor  directives, they will face the consequences of being sacked. Abuse of Joint Account established by the 1999 Constitution: The  constitution provides for the establishment of State Joint Local  Government Account in each state of the federation where funds from  the Federal Account are lodged before disbursement to the local  government councils. This arrangement has been hijacked by state  governments to starve local governments in their jurisdiction the needed funds for project implementation and rural development. Given the aforementioned encumbrances to local government  administration, what should be the major concern of National Assembly  is how to make the local government work. Such  moves like amending the constitution to abolish local government joint  account with state government is needed. And abolishing state  independent electoral commissions and transferring that responsibility  to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) so that true  representatives of the people can be elected as local government  chairmen and councilors. The strengthening of local governments is the way to go. Therefore,  the National Assembly should not pass the bill to  abolish local governments. It is not in the overall interest of citizens.  Aluta Continua! 