BY BODE GBADEBO, Abuja The immediate past Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has advised leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau, Niger, Nasarawa, Kwara, Kogi, Benue States and the FCT to unite and work together as the success of the party in the next national elections depends on its ability to win across the North-Central zone.  Saraki, while addressing delegates during the zonal congress of the party in Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi, on Saturday, noted that in all the past elections that PDP won at the national level, the party has always recorded sound victory in the North-Central zone and that the calculations has not changed.  “We have looked at the statistics for past elections since 1999 and projected into the 2023 elections, for PDP to return to control of federal power, the party needs to return to winning ways in this zone.  “This is a party that started with controlling four of the states plus FCT in 1999 and at one time was in control of all the six states. Today, a situation where we now have only one State is partially responsible for our loss of federal power. Therefore, our leaders in the zone must make sacrifices, forget their differences and work together in national interest.  “With what is happening across the country today, it is also clear that the hope of rescuing, rebuilding and repositioning Nigeria to become greater depends on the PDP. That is why it is in the interest of Nigeria for the PDP to become stronger and united and the North-Central has a key role to play in all these. Our zone has always been a key factor in keeping Nigeria together and moving the country forward,” Saraki stated.  Saraki further congratulated the leaders and delegates for the peaceful manner in which the congress went and the unity displayed in ensuring all the zonal officers were elected unopposed after intense deliberation and give-and-take arrangement.  “I congratulate Mr. Theophillus Shan who was returned unopposed as the North-Central zonal chairman and all members of the zonal executives. As they work to strengthen our party in the zone, they have our full support moving forward,” he added.