By Our Correspondent In today’s era of internet marketing and the recent pandemic effects has made businesses to mandate its presence online. Where the business is, marketing follows.  Right marketing is a must for the growth of every business. Speaking about marketing, it’s not just a theoretical concept which goes on for years and years. Marketing techniques and strategies have to go along with the ongoing trends.  Trending high in the digital marketing industry with proven marketing tactics and years of experience is Mathieu Tyler Jang, a digital marketing entrepreneur.  Mathieu Tyler Jang, a 29-year-old young man is a well-known marketing strategist and consultant brought up in Vancouver, Canada. Success has always entered one’s life after a struggle and efforts, so with Mathieu Tyler Jang also. Mathieu Tyler Jang has faced hardships with his family in terms of social, financial issues and had a minimum wage job in the beginning of his career.  Mathieu Tyler Jang had big dreams and hopes to overcome all the difficulties and reach the heights of success. Mathieu Tyler Jang’s high goals lack support and trust from near ones to chase his dreams. Starting with affiliate marketing and earning commission from selling products of partnered businesses, soon Mathieu Tyler Jang came across the facebook ads of people travelling around and earning online. This was the point that made Mathieu Tyler Jang realise and gain interest in digital marketing.  Mathieu Tyler Jang came across a mentor to understand the concept of paid ads and managing profitable business. Mathieu Tyler Jang’s passion and skills to turn his dream into a reality made him an expert in the field and today Mathieu Tyler Jang has gathered the required skill set to help other businesses flourish high in the market.  Mathieu Tyler Jang’s diligent methods helped strengthen core and polish methods for client’s businesses. Mathieu Tyler Jang aims to help the young emerging entrepreneurs across the world make their dreams into reality with a digital platform. Mathieu Tyler Jang believes his struggles and experiments would be a path for other businesses to succeed.