By Our Correspondent TAJBank, Nigeria’s most innovative non-interest bank, has announced the deployment of the NQR Payment solution, an indigenous Quick Response Code by NIBSS, for merchants and customers as the newest addition to its innovative e-business channels. The NQR Payment solution is a secure QR-code-based payments and collections platform developed for merchants and customers to receive and make payments for goods and services in a quick, easy, contactless and secure manner. A statement signed by the Founder/Chief Operating Officer of the bank, Mr. Hamid Joda, indicated that the ingenious solution would further drive TAJBank’s culture of innovation and create a seamless payment experience for its rapidly growing individual and corporate customers in their banking transactions. “We are excited to have this payment channel introduced into the nation’s financial system as an addition to other innovative solutions we have deployed over the past few months. This is a proof that, as we have said in our communications signature line, TAJBank’s interest is always in our customers”, Joda enthused. In his remarks, the non-interest lender’s Chief Marketing Officer/Co-Founder, Mr. Sherif Idi, also maintained that the deployment of the NQR payment solution would revolutionize the e-payment experience and open new frontiers for small, medium and large scale businesses who are major stakeholders of the bank. Since it commenced operations in the non-interest banking segment of the financial services industry, TAJBank is noted for its impeccable track record of growth and innovation, rendering exceptional quality services to customers. The lender’s NQR solution is open to all customers of the bank, both merchants and individuals, across all its branches and digital channels globally. TAJBank is Nigeria’s 2nd licensed non-interest financial institution offering a bouquet of innovative and customer-oriented products and services that span private banking, retail banking, business banking, development finance and the public sector.