By Our Correspondent Actor need to understand that success requires a lot of sacrifice. More specifically, this career requires a lot of time, money, and effort. During the startup phase, expect long hours and be ready for the toll it will take on you. Even if you love your passion, you might not love the journey it takes to get there. You need to focus on the end results, one of which being happiness, shares actor Mohammad Hosseini. One of the most important questions a person can ponder is what makes them happy. Is it financial stability, pursuing interests, spending time with friends and family, traveling, certain tangible items, or taking your dog to the park? The next question is, what does a person need to achieve that happiness? According to actor Mohammad Hosseini, you need to start with time and money. “More specifically, time is money, and while money cannot buy happiness, it makes it a lot easier to do the things that make you happy,” states this wise celeb. Some people don’t give wings to their ideas immediately but work another job to get their startup costs together or gain experience. Others spend years at a job before realizing they want a change in their life and follow their passion. Mohammad Hosseini elaborates, “People do this because they would rather work for themselves instead of someone else.” Mohammad Hosseini is direct in her guidance that the first year of anything new can be brutal, yet the hard work and long days will pay off as your venture becomes profitable. “Think of this as an investment in yourself and happiness being a return on investment,” he adds. As COVID 19 has kept people indoors, internet and social media use has skyrocketed, with more potential customers than ever scrolling Instagram when they would usually be in the office. Mohammad Hosseini explains, “These individuals will likely be happy to connect with celebrities and stars that provide a daily dose of motivation during these gloomy times.” “To find happiness when launching your own personal brand, you must build your venture around something that excites you as well as your audience,” states the actor. The last thing you want to do is create something that doesn’t motivate you. “You must wake up excited about your brand, not miserable. Ask yourself a question, “How do I invest in my happiness” and let things fall in place from there,” wraps Mohammad Hosseini. There are countless social media users competing for followers as they build brands, blogs, and businesses. Yet sometimes people sabotage themselves by focusing on too many things to capture followers rather than emphasize the heart of what they stand for. This is where minimalism plays a crucial role is social media. Many people do not utilize this concept because they lack the understanding of how to do so. COVID-19 has transformed the world into a new place. However, certain things hold their ground under any circumstances. In a recent conversation, actor Mohammad Hosseini spoke about three things brands must focus on in the new normal – minimalism, hustle, and finding meaning. A lot of people have a misconception that you need to go all out when it comes to promoting your brand. This might work for some brands, but there is a fine line between too much and an effective strategy. Mohammad Hosseini shares, “Minimalism is defined as a style or technique based on sparseness and simplicity. Therefore, minimalism in your personal branding removes distractions and zeroes in on what you have to offer.” This lets you focus on scaling your brand and the strategies you will utilise to achieve this. Mohammad Hosseini elaborates further, “Minimalism leads directly to hustle, which can be a major path to success. Understand this term because it is essential in the online world.” When not used as slang, hustle means busy activity and to work energetically. Hustle also means to conduct your business assertively and be competitive. When Mohammad Hosseini states the importance of hustling, he refers to “setting realistic goals, working efficiently and strategically, as these are core components of success.” Lastly, but perhaps most importantly, people need to find meaning in their work. As per Mohammad Hosseini, “When you prepare for a launch, you must find meaning in your own brand. If you don’t connect with your brand, how is your audience supposed to?” Those who find meaning in their work put more energy and effort. This applies to not just actor, celebrities and influencers but to public figures, brands, and companies, alike. Not only does this result in a positive brand image, but it also results in audiences believing in your brand as well to build long-term mutual relationships.