By Ejike Ejike, Abuja | The acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has re-appointed CP Frank Mba as Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO). He also approved the posting of AIG Hafiz Inuwa as the Force Secretary and member of the Force Management Team. Also, Ag. CP Idowu Owohunwa has been reappointed as principal staff officer (PSO) to the IGP. The new force secretary, AIG Hafiz Inuwa takes over from AIG Mustapha Dandaura, who has been redeployed to Zone 7 Police headquarters, Abuja. AIG Inuwa holds a Masters degree in Public Policy and Administration (MPPA). Prior to his appointment as the force secretary, he was the assistant inspector-general of police in charge of Zone-13 Ukpo -Dunukofia in Awka, Anambra State, covering Anambra and Enugu State police commands. He also previously served as the Commissioner of Police in charge of Delta and Cross River States, amongst other strategic positions. He is a member of the prestigious National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPPS), Kuru, Jos. CP Frank Mba, a lawyer and a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), is also an alumnus of the University of Dundee, Scotland – United Kingdom, where he earned a Master’s degree in Law. An IVLP scholar, he holds a Diploma in Police Strategic Management from the University of Virginia, USA and a graduate of the prestigious FBI National Academy (FBINA) in Quantico, Virginia, USA. He also holds a Certificate in National and International Security from Harvard University, USA. A veteran public relations (PR) practitioner, he is being re-appointed as the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO) and the Image-maker for the Nigeria Police Force for the third time. Ag. CP Idowu Owohunwa, the newly re-appointed principal staff officer, holds a Bachelor’s degree in International Studies from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and a Master’s degree in Criminal Justice Studies and Policing from the University of Leeds, United Kingdom. A Chevening scholar, Ag. CP Owohunwa also holds a Diploma in Police Strategic Management at the University of Virginia, USA and a graduate of the globally recognized FBI National Academy in Quantico, Virginia, USA. Ag. CP Owohunwa was the PSO-IGP between 2015 and 2016, and to the immediate past Inspector General of Police. This re-appointment marks the third time he is holding the position as the Principal Staff Officer to the inspector-general of Police. In a similar vein, the IGP has ordered the posting of the following officers; CSP Idris Abdullahi Abubakar as the PSO II to the IGP, SP Isah Abdulhamid as PA-IGP, SP Nura Kabir Hanga as Secretary – IGP, amongst other personal aides. The appointments/postings of the senior officers and personal aides take immediate effect.