By Jonathan Nda- Isaiah. | The Etsu Nupe and chairman, Niger State Council of Traditional Rulers , HRH Yahaya Abubakar, has advocated proper funding  of the  Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC). The Traditional Ruler, who stated this while recieving the Governing Council of HYPPADEC at his palace in Bida, Niger State, said it will address  the suffering of those affected by flood as  a result of water spillage from the hydro power dams. Time For HYPPADEC To Take-off According to him, the commission needed both human and material resources  to mitigate the long years of the  problems of hydro power  producing areas. The monarch said: “communities affected by  the construction of hydro power dams have  suffered ecological and socioeconomic challenges for several years  waiting for the commission to address,  hence the need to  properly fund the Commission for result.” He, however, expressed confidence that by  the composition of the commission’s Governing Council, the members will work hard to ensure that the objectives of establishing  the commission were met. Earlier, the chairman of HYPPADEC Governing Council, Hon. Joseph Terfa Ityav, said the commission was established to address ecological challenges and support victims of ecological  problems in the hydroelectric power producing areas. He informed the Etsu Nupe that the commission has  so far  gone round five out of the six HYPPADEC states and obtained  information on the underlying challenges for action plans. For his part, the managing director of the commission, Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq Yelwa, emphasised the importance of traditional institutions in discharging the mandates of the commission, describing the institutions as the gateway to the affected communities. He, therefore, assured the Etsu Nupe of constant engagement with  relevant stakeholders in executing HYPPADEC projects and programmes. The Governing Council was also at the palace of Etsu Agaie, Alhaj Yusuf Nuhu and Etsu Lapai, Alhaji Ummaru Bago Tafida lll to brief them on the activities of the commission.