BY OUR CORRESPONDENT With so much happening around business industries and the continuous advancements and developments taking place all over the world, we can say that the world is in safer hands when it comes to making revolutionary changes across business markets. Major credit goes to the many entrepreneurs of the world who have shown what it really takes to make it huge across industries. Talking about the bitcoin world, so many talents have emerged over the years to offer value to people and make themselves a part of the modern-day world. One such entrepreneur from Europe is Mao Lal. He entered entrepreneurship with founding ‘Deutsches Edelmetallhaus’ in 2003. He recognized the signs of the times and consciously took up the trade of precious metals. The company has been doing excellently well ever since in the field of precious metal investments. Mao Lal had even predicted that the trading of these assets and other rare commodities would increase and that’s what happened, gaining importance in the financial sector. His firm Bitsons Management GmbH is rising high as a full-service provider for blockchain business solutions and idea realization. Mao Lal, through Bitsons, is providing an opportunity to everyone for building up an additional income. Together with Bitsons Management GmbH, they develop innovative products and services together with their customers and partners that take up the advantages of blockchain technology and integrate them into existing industries. His third business is Coinygram LTD, which is a growing online platform, specialized in trading cryptocurrencies and crypto products. It was in 2010 that Mao Lal had started mining bitcoin with his own computer. Today, even after a decade in the industry, he does the same and mine bitcoin, but now not with his work computer, but his own mining farm in Norway. The growth and the potential Mao Lal had predicted for bitcoin, a new digital and decentralized currency back then, has only stood correct and over the years, the ace entrepreneur has gotten more involved with the idea behind the innovative construct of the decentralized managed currency. Ask him what excites him the most in his business and Mao Lal replies, “Success”. He highlights that all those people who have achieved their first big success have made it from the ground up, went under the grind and have gone through all phases of entrepreneurship. They know how overwhelming is the feeling of having made it. Seeing the company grow is simply indescribable, he adds. Also, Mao Lal has made a unique place for himself in the industry as he has been involved with blockchain technology from the very beginning. His experiences in the industry distinguish him and his companies. To see a better ad brighter future of the world, Mao Lal explains how important it is to walk hand-in-hand with the changing times and embracing these incredible advances in the blockchain technological world, which can help people, be a bigger part of the bigger change.