By our Correspondent Becoming a millionaire by assisting others sounds like a satisfying job but one that is too good to be true. Thanks to the rise of the internet and global communications, this goal is no longer a pipe dream.  Ken Johnson is a brand builder and digital marketing authority. His companies work with celebrities, musicians, entrepreneurs, and other organisations to increase their digital footprint to gain exposure. Ken has been very successful in this area as his businesses have grown exponentially by helping other companies deliver their brands to target audiences.  The web has changed almost all aspects of our lives, as has social media. Digital advertising was already outpacing traditional methods, but when the pandemic struck, a massive section of the business world had to transition online. This turned out to be an ideal opportunity for Ken since internet traffic and social media use skyrocketed. Companies needed to reach out to customers, and social media platforms turned out to be the answer.  In order to fully utilize this marketing method, businesses turn to Ken for guidance. He customizes a strategic solution for each client, including the administrative details of running a successful social media campaign.  Thanks to this innovative and comprehensive solutions, Ken has enjoyed the same success as his clients. In fact, his businesses grew by 200% in 2020 due to the pandemic. Even in this economically unstable time, Ken and his clients flourished.  Even before COVID-19 struck, Ken had a reputation for helping clients succeed when all other marketing agencies had failed. This impressive record is based on unconventional thinking and finding even the most obscure opportunity for a client to explore.  Ken is also proficient in analyzing website trends and data to find out when people are online and what the internet use trends look like at these times. It is not magic, only metrics, something Ken understands very well.  A blend of technical ability, business prowess, marketing tactics, and public relations knowledge has built Ken’s fortune.  As his networth increases, so does the demand for his services. You do not achieve success unless you are good at something, and Ken is very, very good at what he does. He might be on the verge of digital trends but he built his fortune the old fashioned way: he earned it.