Agency Report Being an actor, for Daniel A. Olaniyi, popularly known as Lordmansamusa was an odyssey that started way back when he was a teenager. “My first time in front of a camera was during a school play in secondary school,” he reminisced. He added: “Contrary to some people’s belief, acting is not an easy profession. It has its vicissitudes too.” Despite the challenges, “the undying love for the art,” he said, is what keeps him going. Of his greatest achievement, he said without hesitation: “My children.” However the image of a popular actor working in a farm, as a farmer is not farfetched, if it is a make-believe role. After all, actors can be anybody once they are in their element. In real life, however, it is difficult to reconcile an actor with being a farmer, simply because thespians and their ilk are generally associated with glamorous endeavours. Lordmansamusa remains one of the good actors who in real life combine the two roles – a farmer and an actor. He did not hide his passion for agriculture and he readily talks about his investment in agribusiness. He gave a hint about where he derived his inclination and motivation. “I grew up with a father who owned a poultry, which led to my interest in agriculture,” said Lordmansamusa. The multifaceted entrepreneur also has his hands in other pies, is also renowned for his predisposition for technology. “I have always been interested in how technology makes human labour easier, and generally making lives easier,” he offered. Speaking from experience, he outlined what he considered a major challenge facing entrepreneurs in Nigeria: “The fact that there’s not a robust government support or even private bodies that support entrepreneurship cause to its fullest.” For him, he asserted, there is no conflict in combining agriculture with acting. Asked if he has any misgiving in how his life turned out, Lordmansamusa said without further elaboration: “Any human who’s truly alive and living would have his own share of regret.”