The most anticipated NAIRAXI Mobile Application, designed to empower over 20,000 youths annually has been officially launched in Abuja. Speaking during the launching ceremony, the CEO of NAIRAXI, Mr Kingsley Eze took the audience through a practical presentation on the customer-friendly interfaces of the ride-hailing, mobile transportation, logistics, and on-demand service provider application. He said the NAIRAXI application was designed to create, especially for youth empowerment. Eze stated that the introduction of the App will eventually translate to huge economic advancement in the country. He urged Nigerians to key into supporting the indigenous innovation to improve the lives and the entire economy of the country. Speaking further, he said the App provides ease of accessibility for users. The colourful launching ceremony of NAIRAXI Mobile technology recorded the distinguished presence of reputable personalities, key stakeholders in the transport industry, public office holders, potential investors, and special guests. Some of the distinguished personalities at the event include Senator Shehu Sani, the former governor of Zamfara State Abdulaziz Yari, who was well represented, Hon. Farida Wada. Also, Hon Ibrahim Umar, Hon Ibrahim Shehu Gusau, Hon Aminu Musa Koko, Hon Sani Mohammed, Mrs Angela Keyede, representing the perm-secretary of Ministry of Transport, Engr Stephen Igbinosa, president of Benin Community Association and Comrade Shehu Shugaban, president of Abuja Painted Taxi. Other notable individuals and national institutions included the Directorate of Road Traffic Services (VIO), who was represented by Mr Durojaiye EB, Corps Commander Abiodun Akinlade, who represent the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), spokesperson to Rt Hon Yakubu Dogara, Mrs Akinkumi YO, representing the DG of National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), Mr Ahmad Tijjani Abubakar, UNOPS Zaria, Musa Ismailia Olanrewaju David, head of Trade and Investment Handcraft, Dr Tolulola Bayode, Engr Mohammed Bawa, Alh Ibrahim Maye, a rtd perm sec, Mr Oyemuta Albert, MD Mutalis Nigeria Limited, Alh Abubakar Mohammed from PPPRA, amongst other special guests of honour. The representative of Zamfara state Governor, who commended the indigenous creativity of the innovative empowerment initiative in Nigeria and for Nigerians. He stated that technology and youth empowerment remains a vehicle for sustainable development in Nigeria and assured the agency of Yari’s commitment to promoting the sustainability of NAIRAXI Technology in Nigeria. The major highlight of the event was the colourful and luminated unveiling of the NAIRAXI mobile technology by Senator Sani Shehu, alongside the CEO and CFO of NAIRAXI, Mr Kingsley Eze and Ms Elizabeth Omale respectively.