The management of Freedom Garden City (FGC) Estates has reiterated its commitment to provide affordable and decent housing for Nigerians. The estate developed by Webmark Estate Services has over the years developed estate for paramilitary personnel, civil servants, cooperatives, and various associations in Nigeria and the diaspora. Speaking during a customer appreciation event to celebrate 2020 and its success in Abuja, the marketing director, FGC, Mr Olapeace Ogunfile lauded Nigerians and its customers for their patronage which has, in turn, led to service delivery in line with globally accepted practices. Ogunfile said some of the luxurious and spacious government approved plots, are located at Freedom Garden Estate, Lugbe, Freedom Garden Estate, Gurku, Behind Mpape Hills, Freedom Garden City Estate, Karshi Behind Navy quarters, and Paramilitary Estate Kuje. Testifying about the company’s building structural design and architectural finishing, Ogunfile assured customers of their loyalty, dependability and satisfaction of the estate in accordance with ethics. He added that the prices of the lands are affordable, adding that with a fifty per cent deposit buyers can move to the site with offers for free setting out, with 400 blocks and 10 bags of cement while the balance can be spread. He, however, assured that 2021 will be a better year for the FGC focused on service in line with ethical principles. Ogunfile also urged Nigerians to shun patronizing quacks which he said has led to more building collapse and other shoddy practices. A beneficiary, Mr Atunlese Tony a public servant expressed confidence in the developers, urging them not to relent in delivering affordable housing for Nigerians. He also lauded the flexible payment plan of the estate developer, testifying about the genuineness of the estate. Some of the items distributed include 25kg of rice, 5litres of vegetable oil, a customized notepad, and other items. Other subscribers that were present also commended the developers as an organization that’s globally recognized and accepted with the best global practices in delivering affordable land and housing to the populace.