Nigerians have been urged to keep faith with the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration in tackling the perennial challenges facing the country. Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, gave this charge in his New Year message to Nigerians. The lawmaker in a New Year he personally signed and made available to journalists stated that “I felicitate with Nigerians at the beginning of another year, the year 2021”. “The immediate reaction of human beings is to be weighed down granted the challenges we faced almost all through the outgone year, but the newness of the unseen incoming year is the harbinger of fresh hope which is the tool to overcome despair and a fortress from despondency. “Agreeably coping with the challenges of the last year particularly the pandemic, and our peculiar local realities of economic down turn and insecurity could be overwhelming, but one assurance we can hold on to as a nation of faithful, is our faith and the unassailable commitment of His Excellency President Mohammadu Buhari GCFR and the team to do justice to them as conveyed in the speech to the nation. “Our attitude to the new year is to stay strong, resolute in our conviction bouyed in hope and the unchanging resolve that we will overcome our challenges and that the new year portends a more fulfilling prospects for us all, leaving the past behind and holding on to a reassuring future. “My continued solidarity and that of the House of Representatives go to all of our compatriots who are on the frontlines both in the two major theatres of onslaught against our well being, i.e military and medical, our warmest wishes go to you at this time as we pray that this year, we will overcome all. “I urge all Nigerians to eshew any divisive inclination no matter the colour its painted, knowing that our continued well being as a people and nation is inherently woven in the fine tapestry of our commitment to the only nation we can call our own. I wish all our compatriots a very Happy New Year”.