The Borno Government has enroled 1,163 children of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), in schools in Mobbar Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. This is contained in a statement by Malam Isa Gusau, Special Adviser to Gov. Babagana Zulum, on Communications and Strategy, in Maiduguri, on Monday. Gusau said that the enrolment was supervised by Zulum in Damasak, headquartres of Mobbar LGA during a three-day visit to the area, adding that the measure was part of efforts to ensure that all school age children were enroled in school. He said that the governor was on a three-day visit to LGAs along the shores of Lake Chad for schools enrolment and other humanitarian support to returnees. “In the third and final day of Zulum’s humanitarian trip to Damasak, at the shores of Lake Chad, a total of 1,163 children of IDPs were enroled in primary school as part of the governor’s enrolment campaign. “The pupils, who were from Guzamala and Abadam LGAs in northern Borno, had been out of school since their parents were displaced by Boko Haram fighters, following attacks on their communities. “Zulum appealed to parents to allow their children to enrol in schools, saying that there were functional schools provided by government,” he said. The governor said that social welfare and other assistance from government will be restricted to parents who allowed their children to attend schools. “Zulum also launched the distribution of water pumps, fertilisers, seeds, chemicals and N5,000 cash support for 1,200 irrigation farmers to enable them embark on food cultivation in dry season. “The governor also supervised the distribution of food combination to 10,000 IDP families in need of support. “Each of the 10,000 families received 25kg of rice, 25kg of beans, 25kg of maize and 5 litres of cooking oil as part of interventions before they can generate livelihoods for themselves in Damasak,” Gusau said. Damasak, a border community was a stronghold of Boko Haram terrorists before it was liberated by the Nigerian military, leading to resettlement of the IDPs. (NAN)