By ANDREW ESSIEN ABUJA Niger Deltans under the agies of the Niger Delta Support Groups for Buhari (NDSGB) has stated that the recent appointment of Barr. Effiong Akwa as the sole administrator of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) will serve as a stop-gap measure especially during the ongoing forensic audit of the commission. The group also flayed recent protest against the appointment by persons they described as individuals who it is their birthright to produce those who lead the commission. In a briefing on Friday in Abuja, Deputy National Coordinator of NDSGB, Evangelist Caroline Nagbo while thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for the quick intervention and appointment, charged people in the region to support the commission’s new head adding that the 9 governors of the region where on the same page with the federal government. “The appointment of Barr. Akwa is a stop gap measure by the President as a way of ensuring there is no leadership vacuum in the NDDC
while the Forensic Audit is onging. “Akwa is to assist the Auditors to achieve their aim and it is on record that his tenure will end once the Auditorsconclude their assignment and a Report presented to the Federal Executive Council. This is why what he deserve is more of support to achieve the assignment given to him than condemnations. “While we commend the President for his thoughtfulness in appointing this
seasoned Banker and professional Accountant to head the NDDC at this
trying time,(we ask all Sons and Daughters of the Niger Delta to support
Barrister Effiong Akwa in the task of repositioning the commission before
the appointment of a substantive Board. “This appeal becomes important in view of the assurance by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs – H.E (Senator) Godswill Akpabio that a new Board will
be appoint as soon as the forensic Auditors submit their final report.
An interim Report by the Auditors has already been presented to the
government through the minister. We must also say that those who are
opposing Mr. Akwa’s appointment have not given any genuine reason why
he cannot head the NDDC or why the President cannot in exercise of his
power to hire and fire, appoint anybody he deemed fit to occupy the
position. “It is on this premise that we are solidly behind the President in appointing
this God-fearing man who we believe has the ability to transform the place
before the appointment of a substantive Board for the commission. “There is nobody in the Niger Delta region who is unaware of the challenging problems of the Commission which is responsible for the inability of the Agency to meet its set objectives since its founding and
these are the main reasons the President ordered the Forensic Audit and will never back off from seeing to its successful conclusion, no matter the roadblocks on the way. “On this, the 9 Governors and people of the region are in lockstep with the
President, that is why is important that the Sole Administrator be allowed
to accomplish the task for which he was appointed by the President and
commander in chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”