Igbo professional group, Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), has written an open letter to the Federal Government of Nigeria, urging to immediately write the Government of the United Kingdom and Israel, requesting for extradition of leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, to face the law over his involvement in alleged treasonable felony. The group whose request was contained in the open letter dated January 8th, 2021, and addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, explained that its action was predicated on Kanu’s ceaseless treasonable activities in the country. According to the letter signed by its National President, Prof. Madumere Chika and National Secretary, Mazi Anayo Uchemba, alleged that the IPOB leader is hiding under the cordial relationship between the two nations and Nigeria to plan and launch attacks on Nigeria with a view to destroying it. Describing Kanu as a fugitive who escaped the law after being granted bail following his arrest and detention over treasonable felony, the coalition insisted that Israel and the UK can turn in the IPOB leader given that he was in the nation’s wanted list. The group appealed to the United Kingdom and the Nation of Israel especially to cooperate with the Nigerian government to have Kanu brought back into the country to continue trial. It recalled with regret that Kanu, having evaded justice in the country, boastfully posted some video clips on the Internet where he threatened in a live broadcast not to ever submit himself to the trial that was abruptly suspended due to his sudden disappearance from the country. The Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND) appealed to all foreign nations to direct their embassies to cooperate and assist Nigeria in tracking down Kanu and subsequently hand him over to the Nigerian authorities with a view to facing the law of the country. “We are constrained to write this open letter to the Federal Government of Nigeria through the President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately write the Government of the United Kingdom, requesting the extradition of our fugitive son and founder of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, to Nigeria to continue his trial over alleged treasonable felony,” the group said. Going further, the coalition said: Since Kanu escaped justice to the United Kingdom where he has another citizenship, we have watched him on some video clips he posted on the Internet where he did not only boast that he would not submit himself before the trial that was abruptly suspended due to his sudden disappearance from the country but also threatened that he would destroy our dear country. “He has no doubt, followed the threat with a number of attacks on the country apart from the formation of a militia group which information at our disposal suggest he has armed to the teeth to fight the Nigerian Government and call on the Federal Government of Nigeria being ably led by President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, whose ministry deals with all extradition issues, to immediately forward extradition request on Kanu to the UK for action. The coalition added:””As Igbo sons and daughters, we wish to inform Nigerians that Kanu is alone in his cessation project and has no reasonable person behind him even as it admitted that the South East region had not had its fair share in the one Nigeria project, the Igbo group said the pursuit of inclusive government must be channelled through appropriate lawful means. “Though our people are highly marginalized and deserve the right for agitation, but that must be done legally and by the appropriate people not a deviant young man like Nnamdi Kanu who is out for his selfish interest,” it said.