Dana Air has welcomed two of its Boeing aircraft fresh from maintenance overseas. The arrival of the aircraft is coming days after another of its aircraft returned to service recently in December. The chief operating officer of Dana Air, Obi Mbanuzuo while speaking on the development said ‘’Just recently we received one of our aircraft back from maintenance sound while the other is undergoing mandatory checks by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) before release. ‘’The safety of our guests and crew will continue to take priority in our operations and we will continue to keep our safety standards with zero tolerance for violations irrespective of the situation or circumstance.’’ ‘’The return of another of our aircraft in late December, helped mitigate the schedule disruptions we  experienced recently and we have been able to ferry a good number of our guests to their destinations while  working to ensure all round customer satisfaction and schedule reliability for our guests ‘’We once again acknowledge the frustrations of our guests and wish to use this medium to once again apologise to them for the schedule disruptions experienced some weeks back. We are deeply sorry about it and we are working tirelessly to improve on our known schedule integrity and overall operational efficiency.’’ he added. Dana Air now, has a mixed fleet of 9 aircraft and daily flights from Lagos to Abuja, Port Harcourt, Owerri, and Enugu. Recently Dana Air increased flight frequencies from Lagos to Port Harcourt, Enugu and Owerri from December 7, 2020 According to Ezenwa, Dana Air will introduce additional flights from Lagos to Enugu, Port Harcourt, and Owerri before the second week in December. “We are delighted to announce additional flights on our Enugu, Owerri and Port Harcourt routes starting from December 7, 2020,” he said. “These additional flights are part of our preparations to provide our guests amazing options with schedule reliability, consistency, on-time departures, and efficient services.”