Highly anticipated Nollywood Film, “2 Weeks In Lagos” is set for release next month after the initial postponement due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The movie which was billed to be released in March last year was postponed indefinitely due to the massive increase in the pandemic.  The true Lagos Love story features top Nollywood actors from the old to the young and the new such as Mawuli Gavor, Toyin Abraham, Beverly Naya, Joke Silva, Shaffy Bello, Deyemi Okanlawon, Jide Kosoko, Yaw, Tina Mba, Patrick Nnamani, Efe Irele, Uto Usman and a host of others.  “2 Weeks In Lagos” is directed by Canadian-based award-winning director, Kathryn Fasegha, whose debut project titled, “Treacherous Heart” won awards for Best Drama in Diaspora at the African Oscars in North Carolina, USA, also won Favourite Director African Oscars Washington DC USA and award for the Global Women Vision Award Calgary.  “2 Weeks in Lagos” is a captivating, turbulent and thrilling journey into the love affair of Ejikeme (Mawuli Gavor) and Lola (Beverly Naya). Their lives collide when Ejikeme an investment banker comes home from the United States to invest in Nigerian businesses. It is love at first sight for them and as they embark on a journey of discovering this new love, they have to contend with the political ambitions of Ejikeme’s mother who is planning a marriage between him and the only daughter of Otunba Ayodeji, a political juggernaut who is considering Ejikeme’s father as his running mate for the Nigerian Presidency. His mother’s actions create a rift between Ejikeme and Lola that puts their families on a deadly collision course.  The movie captures the excitement and vibrancy of everyday life in Lagos and reflects the complexity of life in Lagos, a dynamic city where anything is possible in two weeks.  The movie was first screened at Cannes Festival which happens to be the biggest film festival in the world on Friday May 17, 2019 in Cannes France and will be released in all cinemas in Nigeria next month.  Veteran actor, Prince Jide Kosoko, also claims working on the project, “2 Weeks In Lagos” was exceptional as it told a simple story with excellent performance. We said, “Working on this project meant a lot to me, because for the first time, a simple and original love story is told with excellent performance.”