By IGHO OYOYO The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused a High Court judge in Abakaliki, Justice Vincent Nwancho of being under immense pressure to do the bidding of the Governor of Ebonyi State, Engr. Dave Umahi, in Suit N0. HA/161/2020 filed between Onyekachi Nwebonyi & 2ors V. Peoples Democratic Party & Ors. The party is worried that Justice Vincent Nwancho is said to be under pressure to assume jurisdiction over the suit despite the transmission of the Record of Appeal and entering of the appeal in Appeal NO. CA./E/03/2021, challenging the jurisdiction of the trial court to hear the matter. Hon. Igariwey iduma Enwo, a member of PDP in the House of Representatives, representing Afikpo North/ South Federal Constituency, while speaking on the matter condemned the attempt by the state governor to control the leadership of both the APC and PDP, describing it as a travesty of the basic tenets of democracy, which was bound to fail. Enwo said, “a situation whereby citizens have lost hope on the state judiciary as a result of blackmail & overbearing influence of the Executive arm” . He explained that the matter was filed by the former chairman of the PDP in Ebonyi State, Onyekachi Nwebonyi, challenging his removal by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the PDP. That at the resumed hearing of the matter, 18th day of January 2021, the trial court attempted to deliver ruling in respect of a motion for interlocutory injunction, earlier filed by the deposed chairman of the PDP in Ebonyi State. “It is strange that the court was pressured to deliver a ruling in an application for interlocutory injunction, when the respondent is no longer within the powers and jurisdiction of the High Court stating that the appeal has already been entered at the Court of Appeal Enugu and Record of Appeal served on the trial court. “It is reported that the court premises was filled with heavily armed police men, including an armored vehicle stationed at the entrance of the court. Upon interrogation, one of the police men said they were on special assignment, having been informed that the State Government was expecting a ruling from the court,” he said. He recalled that the Chief Judge of the State, who recently recused himself from adjudicating in the matter, was also under same pressure from the State Government prior to his withdrawal from the matter. “Similar fate had earlier befallen Justice Elvis Ngene, the first trial judge in the matter, before the Chief Judge took over,” he said. One of the counsel on the side of the PDP, Mudi Erenede Esq, described what transpired in court as an unfortunate circus, stating that “Justice Vincent Nwanchor’s ruling come 20th January was already predictable.” Erenede condemned the state governments ”stranglehold” on the state judiciary, and promised that the PDP would pursue all legitimate complaints against erring judges before the National Judicial Commission. Justice Vincent Nwanchor adjourned the matter to 20th January 2021 for ruling on the interlocutory injunction.