By Shamseddin Giwa There is a general misconception in the society which tends to come as a default that where there are fertility issues, it is the fault of the woman. This single mindset makes it difficult for many homes especially the newly formed ones to get through the challenges of fertility, which may come with marriage. Challenges and delays, which may not even, be because anything is wrong. Sometimes, it just takes time for these things to happen. Yes, in other cases, there would be challenges but whether it is blocked tubes or low sperm count, there needs to be a way to make sure the marriage stands solid through the challenges. Erase the blame angle and be open-minded. Don’t seek to pass blames and faults. It has not happened, the energy should be on seeking ways to make it happen not on how to assign blames. It is not enough to leave her to it all. You are a team and this issue is a team challenge not just for her. Be very interested in it all, this includes appointments, scans and procedures. Don’t just be a passenger, engage, ask questions, gather knowledge and be about the best way to ease her pressures because as a spouse, that really is your duty. This would feed off the first point about assuming it is always the fault of the woman. The moment you open your mind to the possibility that anything could be the case and you are all about seeking an effective solution to it, you shouldn’t find it as difficult to opt for tests. Unfortunately today, it is quite common to find many husbands leaving the wives to go through this alone even when the issue may be from said man. This includes physically but it also covers emotional protection from families and friends. It is not uncommon to find family members who, at this point want to ask hurtful questions or even accuse her. It becomes your position as her husband to stand up for her and protect her. When your folks see you standing with your spouse as you should be, you earn respect as a man, as a husband and you earn her respect too. In addition, you protect your home from emotional blackmails and negative interference. This can be challenging for you too especially given the anxiety of seeking children is there but that is only one aspect of life, you don’t have to throw the others away. Enjoy this time as much as you can. Go on date nights and work on your friendship, create time and play more. Hey, who’s to say you cannot spice the intercourse up? This is a real crusher that happens a lot. Yes, it is the reality that these things are more likely where you have pressure but it is only with pressure you don’t take time to try and work on. The sensitivity of your spouse would rise during this and you have got to pay attention to it. Little things that should not mean a thing ordinarily may begin to flag, let it be your purpose too, as a husband to help her get through this. It really is not easy.  People tend to get lost in the pressure of trying to conceive that sex becomes a chore instead of a fun task. Be deliberate in this act, let it be a period to explore and also learn more about your bodies and connection. Enjoy it. Your chances are even better this way and when you are relaxed so why not? Stress is a big big inhibitor and one of the leading triggers for it and fatigue is endless chores in the home. The home is for you as a team so already you should be involved in keeping it running but through this period, you should be willing to even be more involved just so as to keep her as relaxed as possible. Where you are able to afford it, employ a domestic help. Pay attention to the big things and also the little ones as there may be tension in the air from time to time. Have a routine that helps you address this. For example you can both agree that whenever there is an argument and voices rise, you would both keep quiet and let tempers calm before continuing. Another example is agreeing that you won’t go to bed without apologising or making up etc. This is not always the easiest thing to do but it is something that you need to do to make the home and union better at that point. It may just be in a smile but that smile can be the difference between her giving up and having the strength to keep going strong.  A lot of things are the way they are in our society today because many husbands just don’t know. Join fertility groups, speak with medical practitioners, engage, read but most importantly, learn to understand the uniqueness of your own marriage and situation and learn to adapt whatever you gain to it. 