In this century, most people have more trust in digital currency and want to trade bitcoins online. Digital currency contains the centralized and decentralized solution to the money. Through bitcoins you can buy goods and services globally online. It is easy, fast, cheap and secure also it provides you with complete control over your money. Bitcoin is introducing a new mechanism in place of money in coming time. It is a new sort of value though you can take a part in investments like bonds, stocks, real estate, and more. It is a type of crypto currency. This asset is enhancing its value fastly.  Strategies to trade bitcoin online Main thing to consider is how to speculate on the trend and activity of the price of crypto currency. While, traditionally the main involvement of the buying a bitcoin was set according to exchange. To get the most volatility of bitcoin, the traders are immensely using immitatives to speculate on falling and rise.  Crucial strategies: Single day trading Day trading bitcoins associates how you will deal with open and close of positions during a single business day. So do not take overnight funding vulnerability on your position. It works as a best strategy if you are interested in trading bitcoin online for short-term price fluctuations.  Trend trading Make the focus on current trending to take a present trend position. Like if the trending is going on in the bullish position, then go long and if the trend is going bearish, then go for short. Especially if the trend is going slow or with reverse position, then you must think of closing your situation and opening a new one to get close to the emerging trend.  Hedging strategy Hedging bitcoins terms to mitigate your submission to risk through taking a rival position to that one you already have joined. You would use it if you are concerned that the market is turning against you.  HODL strategy HODL strategy detailed about holding and buying bitcoins. This term is obtained from misspelling of the term hold. It’s now famous for crypto currency convocation. A famous quote is trending now that is ‘ hold on for dear life’. However, for investors it’s not an attractive trading strategy because you can only get it if you have a long deep-rooted positive look on its price. If your trading position indicates you are selling your point to take limit loss or profit, you should act on that. Or you are required to set stop losses to automatically close your position.