Born in 1984, to Hajiya Aisha Abubakar and Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje, former governor of Gombe State, Dr Hussaina Goje, from Kashere village in Akko local government area in Gombe State, is currently the state’s commissioner for environment and forestry. She learnt the art of managing her career and family life, and always makes time for family and relatives even while working. Hussaina is a firm believer that women should be able to pursue their careers with regards to education and business. EDUCATION I attended Child Valle Nursery and Primary School in Lagos State, as well as Gombe Children’s School and later proceeded for my secondary school education in Federal Government Girls College, Bauchi, then studied business administration at the University of Abuja. I went further for Masters in Bayero University Kano (BUK) where I grabbed Masters of Business Administration. Later I proceeded to England, Nottingham, specifically, to do my PhD in Entrepreneurship and Innovation. I also have other professional qualifications in project management.  CAREER My immediate past job was in the financial sector, I worked in Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC), Abuja. I started work at the commission in 2010. However, prior to that job, after my graduation from the university in 2005, I worked in various sectors including the oil and gas, Sao Tome and Principe specifically. I worked in a private oil company, Sanduff Oil and Gas Ltd, during my PhD in the United Kingdom. I also consulted for certain businesses with the Nottingham Business School during my studies. Apart from these, I was an associate lecturer for 400 level final year and Masters students.  MENTORS I actually have two mentors. My mentor number one is my father, Sen Danjuma Goje and my husband, Dr Ibrahim Braham Boyi. They have been strong pillars of support in my walk to self-actualization.  INSPIRATION My faith in Allah as a Muslim is where I draw my inspiration. My inspiration from Prophet Mohammed drives me to strive to engender peace in the society and humanity.  FEARS Human beings are bound to have certain fears but who I fear the most is Allah.  REGRETS I really don’t have any regret because I grew up in a loving family, surrounded by loved ones and loving relatives. I am grateful to Allah because I also married a very loving and compassionate husband. So, in a nutshell I have no regrets.  WHAT DIFFERENTIATES YOU FROM OTHER WOMEN? Dr Hussaina Goje is not different or special from any other woman. This is because I am a daughter, sister, aunt, wife and mother. I am like any other human being. We all have our goals in life and we pray to God to make life easy for us and others around us. However, I am whatever I am today because it is what Allah has willed for me. I have full faith in Allah and anything I become is because of Allah.  HOBBY Everyone knows my hobby is reading, I read everything. While I was growing up, I was reading encyclopedia in the library as a primary school student, this continued to my secondary school years where I read the famous fives, Sidney Sheldon’s books. For my educational growth I read my text books. I’m basically a good reader.  FUTURE PLANS For me, being in the current position as a commissioner is the will of Allah, so whatever Allah wills for me is sufficient for me. As I mentioned before, I strive to engender peace in the society and humanity, so I will continue in that thread even when I leave this office.  STRIKING A BALANCE I balance being a commissioner, wife and a mother, because this is not too new to me. I have been doing this since I started my masters and, also, as a PhD student. I stayed in the UK for over four years and I have been married since 2005. I have been coping with the situation by being able to balance my work and personal life. I dare say that I always give each member of my family the ample time required while working.  ADVICE TO WOMEN They should stand up for themselves, pray to Allah and whatever you have in your heart will come to pass, as long as you are on the right track. Ensure you are not doing anything to offend Allah, when you pray for it you will get it. Women should be able to pursue their careers with regards to education and business. They should work towards becoming independent. You don’t necessarily have to go into one kind of business, politics or government.  In a nutshell, there are several avenues that women can become successful, when there is also faith in oneself. I am a commissioner who knows how to balance to both work and family. I rely on Allah to help me on many occasions. Anyone discouraging women from being independent, does not want their progress because when you educate a woman, you have educated a nation which is a popular saying because we the women are the mothers of the home, we take care of the family, children and husband. So, it is important for a woman to be broad minded and to be well educated.