Ignorance is defined as a lack of information or knowledge. Now, this doesn’t sound like a big deal; does it? But it is. That definition may well be used for other words as well, such as stupid. On the surface, they look similar, but they are semantically not the same. What is different about the word ignorance is it derives its origin from the word “Ignore”. Being stupid in the real sense of the term is not synonymous with being ignorant. Stupidity has to do more with not being able to see what is right in front of you, but when you are ignorant, you know it is there but you do not just want to see it. Put succinctly, the word “ignorant” is an adjective that describes a person in the state of being unmindful, a kind of cognitive dissonance. It describes individuals who deliberately ignore or disregard important information or facts. Far from just being a word, ignorance is a term that needs to be taken more seriously. What it connotes is dangerous. Recall that it was ignorance that created division in the United States of America to the extent that brothers were killing each other on the battlefield over the extremely controversial topic of slavery. It was ignorance that caused the state-sponsored mass murder of some 6million European Jews and millions of others by the German Nazi regime between 1933 and 1945 during the holocaust. It was ignorance that led to the kidnapping of over 300 innocent girls in an all-girls boarding school in Borno State of Nigeria in April of 2014 for no crime of theirs other than the fact that they were pursuing their education. It is ignorance that has denied women the votes in this country. It is ignorance that deems a human being superior to another for reasons as simple as race, religion, gender, class and more. In countries such as the United States of America, there is no room to be ignorance anymore. Although I have personally never been to another place as culturally abundant as America, that country has been through so much in the past to still use something as serious as ignorance as an excuse for its social problems. There are answers all around us. I truly believe the mistakes that were made in the past were made to ensure that people could have a better future. And things may be better, even though they are not at the moment. There are still people all over this country and the world at large who are victims of ignorance and who are suffering in silence due to the misconception that speaking up could portray you as being aggressive. But your silence will not protect you. Staying silent is doing not just only you but the whole world a great disservice by leaving uneducated people to think what they want over the fear of having conversations that are too difficult to discuss. Between stubborn defense of positions and fearless discussions, there is a nexus of understanding. And that nexus in this context is that Nigeria must be kept as one in harmony and peaceful coexistence. I think about it like this. If racism, or ethnicity in the Nigerian situation, still exists then what was the point of Martin Luther king Jr. giving his famous “I have a dream speech”, a speech that later cost him his life. It was the same King who pointed out in one of his sermons that “nothing in all the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity.” If women are still being discriminated against, what was the point of the Women’s Suffrage Movement, a decades-long fight to win the right to vote for women in the United States? What is the point of history itself if we don’t have any takeaways? And talking about takeaways, here is one from this article. The only good thing that comes out of the mistakes we make in the past are the lessons we have for the future. And one of those lessons is encapsulated in the words of Dalai Lama: “Where ignorance is our master, there is no possibility of real peace.”  