AZA MSUE, writes on the recent deployment of female soldiers to complement the existing security operations on the Kaduna/Abuja Expressway and its environs. The hunt for bandits and kidnappers have commenced to restore full normalcy on the once safest road The Kaduna-Abuja Express Way is a major dual-carriage road connecting Kano and many northern states. It is observed that, in the last few years, the Kaduna/Abuja Expressway has witnessed activities of banditry and kidnapping as many travellers opted for train services than plying the road for fear of the unknown. According to reports, many travellers were kidnapped on the Abuja/Kaduna road and taken to unknown destinations with millions of naira paid as ransoms by their relatives before their release. Some lost their lives in the process even when ransom was paid. The activities of the bandits on the road have put fear in the mind of travellers. Both the federal and Kaduna State governments have been waging war against these bandits and kidnappers as combined security operatives were stationed on the highway which commuters say the efforts are bringing  relative safety to the road. Some of the commercial drivers plying the road daily noted that, the cases of kidnappings have been reduced drastically attributing the development to the heavy presence of the security operatives. Though, drivers and passengers attributed accidents on the poor Kaduna-Abuja road to the slow pace of reconstruction project being embarked upon by the federal government, which some people unknowingly linked to banditry. Recently, the military authorities have deployed 300 female soldiers to provide security on the said highway. The female combatants complement the existing operations along the highways and the environs. The first batch of 100 troops who are of Nigerian Army Women Corps (NAWC), were formally received by Governor Nasir El-Rufai, his deputy, Dr. Balarabe Hadiza, at their Kakau base on the highway. In his welcome address, I.B. Gambari, Commander Operations Thunder Strike, commended the Kaduna State government for giving the troops a base to enhance their operations. “The military deployed female soldiers to be patrolling on the highway, their meeting point will be at Kateri, from Kaduna and Abuja. We will go and find the bandits in their hideouts. “We commend the Kaduna State governor for the support. Sometimes, people attribute road accidents to banditry and kidnapping. There is relative safety on Kaduna/Abuja road,” Gambari added. On his part, the general officer commanding 1 Div, Major-General Usman Muhammad, said what men can do, women can do better adding that the hostel accommodation provided by the Kaduna State government for female troops  for the operation is commendable. He said, “What men can do women can do better. I believe they will add value to the operations. Anytime you hear Kaduna road, what people say about road some are mischief. The road is relatively safe now.” Mohammed acknowledged the support the Kaduna State government has provided to the military in its internal security operations. The deputy governor, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, tasked the female troops deployed on the road not to fail the country in any assignment given to them. “We commend you for the work you are doing to keep us safe in Kaduna State.  It is going to be a challenging task but you the female troops will overcome it. You have made commitment and dedication to make Kaduna state and the country safe,” she said. Speaking on the occasion, Governor Nasir el-Rufai expressed optimism that, with the deployment of the female soldiers, the insecurity along the highways would soon be a thing of the past. El-Rufai expressed gratitude to the Nigerian Army for deploying the troops and assured them of the continued support of the Kaduna State government as they work towards securing the entire state. El-Rufai said: “We are grateful to the Nigeria Army, Air Force, Police, and all other security agencies for making sacrifice for us to be safe. We commended the immediate past Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Burutai for always responding to our calls in sending troops to Kaduna. “Having female troops here is a sign that banditry is coming to an end. In this state we believe in women because if you give them a chance women will do more than what men can do. I’m confident, for the female troops coming here this road will be the safest in Nigeria.” El-Rufai, however, said the female troops would inspire Kaduna State’s young girls to join the army. “We are very happy as you are here. I hope your presence here will inspire our young girls to join the army,” he said. Meanwhile, in an interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend, a commercial driver at Abuja motor park, Kaduna Command Secondary junction, John Okeke, said the negative story of Kaduna-Abuja road was changing to positive. “I have been on this road for 10 years as a driver. Before the situation was bad as kidnappers used to block road. But now, it is not like that. It has been long now that we witness or hear of such incident on this road” he said.