By Philip Agbese “My first wish is to see this plague of mankind, war, banished from the earth” —George Washington. A gawk into the life and times of Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusufu  Buratai (rtd), leads to the irresistible conclusion that he was inspired by the wisdom of America’s founding father and great leader, George Washington. From what the confessions of the elder Buratai, Pa Yusufu Buratai who passed unto eternal glory about three years ago indicated, even as a World War II veteran, he never poked or influenced his son, Yusuf Buratai to enlist into the Nigerian Military for a life career. Quite explicitly, Gen. Buratai even at an impressionable age was goaded by the desire to be an influencer and contributor to peace amongst humanity. Initially, it must appear somewhat like an infantile world of fantasy, but it profoundly fascinated him. He therefore opted for a Military career voluntarily. He angled to also be part of the history of distinguished and renowned personalities who would be counted as banishing the plaques of wars on earth for humanity to experience peace and tranquility in greater measures. Some people assert that peace is war and war is peace. Both work in a contradictory fusion, but guarantees sanity, peace and security whenever a conflict arises. That’s the paradox of existence. Gen. Buratai pursued his Military ambition to its peak, ending in a glorious, fruitful and rewarding professional career as Nigeria’s COAS and henchman of the counter-insurgency operations at the time of Nigeria’s most tormenting age of insurgencies. In the course of service to his fatherland, Gen. Buratai never hesitated to pull the trigger at an enemy or perverter of peace and security of the people. But he also stretched out the olive branch to subtly clip the wings of anti-state forces desirous to embrace peace. Like author Bryant McGill postulated, the former COAS believed in the persuasion that one should “Become an ambassador of peace in your own life.” So, for decades, he laboured for a peaceful world, dangling the carrot of force or surrender, dialogue and disarmament for a serene world. In doing this, many times, soldier Buratai escaped death by the whiskers; yet remained resolute and undeterred. Instructively, the world has recognized the essentiality of combating insecurities through a dual approach. Security experts have often reminded of the circumstantial socio-political, economic and political reasons which sprout insecurities. Nigeria is no exception, though every clime has its peculiarities. Therefore, the use of   kinetic and non-kinetic means in quashing acts of insecurities, public disturbances, bile insurgency, violent uprisings, banditry, ethno-religious crises and communal skirmishes are usually advocated depending on the severity of a particular security challenge. Notwithstanding, both methods have proved to be potent complementary weapons in berthing peace. Life is a precious gift from God and so, the world has increasingly resorted to such soft approaches in managing conflicts than brute force. The non-kinetic means of settling disputes is mainly the work of Peace Ambassadors. Gen. Buratai has been a loud evangelist of this philosophy. Certainly, the Peace Ambassador Extraordinaire is not a job for everybody. It is only suitable for matured and experienced minds. In conflict situations, very senior security experts who have deep knowledge of the intricacies of the dimensions of prevalent issues of insecurity are most suitable. The diversity of cultures, traditions, religions and ethnic values of warring factions are also essential ingredients for initiators and pillars of peace. Beyond it, those who anchor non-kinetic steps in anchoring peace amongst aggrieved parties must be men and women with proven predispositions to peace, exemplary compassion, passion for humanity and a heart steeped in fraternity.  The ideal personality must be someone who personifies unreserved sense of affection for justice and equity among people and nations. Retired Lt. Gen. Buratai, has spent his very active years and energies to birth peace among feuding or warring peoples around the world, his country Nigeria inclusive.  All through his years as an active soldier, Gen. Buratai devoted his time campaigning for a peaceful world, free from terrorism, armed banditry, bloodshed and all shadows of violence. He knows the strategies for peace and how to deploy it to maximum benefits people even in the trenches. Gen. Buratai has espoused and leveraged on Paul Chappell’s ideology which canvassed; “To replace the old paradigm of war with a new paradigm of waging peace, we must be pioneers who can push the boundaries of human understanding. We must be doctors who can cure the virus of violence. We must be soldiers of peace who can do more than preach to the choir. And we must be artists who will make the world our masterpiece.” The ex-leader of counter-terrorism in Nigeria lived this dream throughout his years of service to the nation. And in the course of his national and internal engagements, or office life, Gen. Buratai dispensed himself a detribalized Nigerian, a pan-Africanist, an avatar of violence and bloodshed. He epitomized freedom for the oppressed and the captives. He protected the weak and the vulnerable from the bloody swords of the incensed armour bearers. The former Army Chief rekindled the human spirit and promoted a shared humanity. He received the deadly bullets for others to exist in peace and offered himself as an indomitable bulwark in defence of the peace and progress of the world. The former leader of the anti-insurgency operations in Nigeria, Gen. Buratai mastered his craft perfectly and worked in consonance with Johan Galtung’s advisory by imposing the steps whose results indicated; “By peace, we mean capacity to transform conflicts with empathy, without violence and creatively-a never ending process.” It explains the former Army Chief’s passionate attachment to the “stick and carrot’ principle in prosecuting Nigeria’s counter-insurgency operations in the Northeast region. He fought several wars not because he wanted to protect himself, family patrimony or his personal treasures hidden in the vaults of deadly forests and caves, or in the fields of the deserts, but to bring peace to all mankind. He endured poisonous reptiles, wild animals, hunger, thirst and deprivations to give Nigeria and the world the deserved peace and respite from torments. He abhorred discrimination against all people and sought to unite aggrieved people anywhere.  Like Manpreet Chadha echoed, Gen. Buratai pleasantly worked to “Build bridges of bonhomie. The wounded world is waiting to heal” and according to Naila Hina,  “ Peace needs the courage to nip the evil in the bud.” Therefore, Buratai cleansed his fatherland of this insidiously tormenting evil forces for his compatriots to experience the refreshing breeze of peace across the ocean, from North to South and East and West. Julie Andrews admonished that everyone should “Be a part of all that is decent and be an ambassador for the kind of world that you want to live in.” Gen. Buratai desired a peaceful, progressive and united world. So, he spared no arsenal to serve humanity a perfect world. He built bridges of dialogue and promoted human understanding in times of adversities.  He summoned all to the niceties of a beautiful world free from of rancour, bitterness, animosities, violence and implored all to assist an entrapped humanity acquit itself from predicaments anywhere in the world. And a step in the right direction, Gen. TY Buratai as a non-career ambassador in his post-service age would automatically morph into a peace ambassador extraordinaire.  He will conscientiously extend the tentacles of his message and activism for peace among nations and peoples. There is no scintilla of doubt that he will execute the functions of his new office with all seriousness and pleasantness to glory of world. But most strikingly, Gen. Buratai is even more armed now to vigorously pursue his preachments and passion of leading the non-kinetic weapon on how to find a lasting solution to the multi-dimensional security issues confronting the country from the diplomatic front. He is a true Nigerian whose wealth of experience attests to it and it is urgently needed in helping to bring about peace, progress and development in the country. #  –Agbese  a human rights activist  wrote from the United Kingdom.