By Blessing Bature-Akpakpan Musharak Esteem Nigeria limited, a public health professional fumigators has commenced the fumigation and decontamination of all police schools across the country The fumigation exercise which commenced during the weekend with the POWA International Schools, Area 11, Garki Abuja is targeted at containing the spread of the deadly Covid-19 virus to ensure a safe environment for learning and teaching services. The Consulting Public Health Officer of Musharak , Sanitarian Ado Abdullahi disclosed that the essence of exercise was to eradicate micro-organisms that are present in the school for the benefit of the students and teachers. Abdullahi said, “the exercise is aimed at complementing the efforts of government in reducing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and other infectious diseases that might pose serious danger to the lives of students, teachers and the general public. He disclosed that the Nigeria Police Force has awarded the contract to Musharak Nigeria Limited to decontaminate and fumigate all police formation primary and secondary schools nationwide. Also speaking, the assistance operation manager, Musharak, Oboh Benjamin said “We are starting the operation in Powa primary and secondary schools with a massive decontamination and fumigation excercise and this will be done quarterly, maybe after three months, the company will extend to other colleges. Also, the Protocol officer, Chimamanda Elizabeth Obiekwe, said the essence of the fumigation is to control pest, prevent covid-19, Lassa fever and other illnesses that animals deposit in our environment. She said because of the high rate of covid-19, the Nigerian police force decided that all their Police schools be fumigated so as to save their students from the dreadful disease covid-19 and other infections. Appreciating the organisation, Mr Bello Nurudeen Adewonle, the Head teacher, Powa International School, thanked Musharak Esteem Nig. Ltd for taking upon itself to come and fumigate the school environment for them at the instance of the Nigerian Police most especially at this crucial period that covid-19 is ravaging the world and many other diseases. It is the only way to safeguard our people, to decontaminate and disinfect the environment by fumigation to keep away viruses and other unwanted aillment or illness, he said “Ordinary we used to spend between #70,000 to #80,000 for each fumigation and sometimes more than that but this one is done for us free of charge at the instance of the Nigerian police force, when they came around they only asked us of our fumigation certificate which we gave them”. “Here we have 23 classes, 3 stores, 5 restrooms, and 4 offices which they have all fumigated. This also extend to sock-away, our sock away this is made to join national greed and national sewage, our sock away are being packed from time to time this is based on FCT Central sewage system.”