The COVID-19 pandemic has caused direct negative  impact on the income and resources of individuals and organisations. The economic reality of the pandemic has affected all sectors of the economy, including education. But the worst hit in the education sector are private schools which have not enjoyed any form of government grant or intervention fund. Many private schools in the country today are groaning under huge debts. Almost all of them took bank loans to build and invest in learning infrastructure, and because of the difficult times created by coronavirus, they have not been able to recoup the capital or have any returns on investment. A lot more have defaulted in the payment of such loans, thereby exposing them to threats of takeover by the banks. Again, private school owners have lamented over the high incidence of non-payment of tuition fees by many parents. The truth is that the parents too have not been spared of the COVID-19 economic reality. It is not like they don’t want to pay the fees of their wards or children; they are simply going through difficult times occasioned by the pandemic. Private schools are a key part of Nigeria’s education sector.  In the last three decades, they have remained a major player in the nation’s education sector, especially with the myriad of challenges faced by the public schools. There is no gainsaying that the country’s education system would have collapsed by now but for the private schools and their rescue mission. While private schools in Nigeria provide potential solutions to the growing problems in the nation’s education system, especially the issue of access to quality education, they face stark financial hurdles that threaten to disrupt their activities and development. Most parents often pay late or not in full due to the economic reality. And it is from the payment of fees that salaries and other logistic expenses are drawn. The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) had in October 2020 appealed to the federal government to float an intervention fund for private school teachers nationwide. The government promised to look into the matter. It agreed to pay the salaries of private school teachers that were being owed following the lockdown in March 2020. But four months after the promise, it appears it was a mere political statement after all. Again, N100billion intervention fund which the government announced for private school teachers in August 2020 is far from being a reality. The government had stated at the time that private school teachers were eligible to access the COVID-19 fund, but no teacher has been able to access the fund to this moment. The federal government has failed to ensure a proper engagement with private school teachers to access the N100 billion from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Government must begin to set its priority right. A situation where artisans and other categories of the informal sector of the economy were able to access the COVID-19 fund, neglecting private school teachers who are the intellectual powerbase of the nation, does not show that we are seriously committed to putting education at its proper place. In August 2020, the teachers submitted names and account details to the Federal Ministry of Education through the National Association of Private School Teachers (NAPST) as part of requirements to access the COVID-19 fund, but no one has been able to access the fund. It has been one story after another. Last week, the leadership of NAPST was told by the education ministry that the names were sent to Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment which had forwarded the list to CBN for necessary action. But whatever the case may be, the relevant authorities must show some level of seriousness by ensuring that these teachers, who have suffered untold hardship since the lockdown last year, are able to access the fund in good time. What is more, government can expand the intervention to include securing finance for school owners who are committed to making sure the children receive a quality education essential for their future success. The government should direct the CBN to design low-interest loans facilities for all private schools. The package should also have some consideration for parents to enable them pay the school fees of their wards or children and have the opportunity to pay back in a convenient way. Financial products for schools, including affordable private schools, can go a long way in enhancing improvement in the quality of education, services and infrastructure in the sector.