The Long Kwo stool vacated after the demise of the last monarch 33 years ago is open to be occupied again. ACHOR ABIMAJE, in this piece, takes a look at the development and the significance of this age long stool to the people of Kwo chiefdom in Quanpan local government area of Plateau State As the race to occupy the stool of Long Kwo chiefdom in Quanpan local government area of Plateau State hots up, about 10 princes from the ruling houses have indicated interest to occupy the 33 years vacant stool. This development, which is as a result of the call by the Plateau state  government to have all vacant traditional stools in the state occupied, has seen more communities gearing up to meet up with the directives. One of such communities where there seems to be hope for the emergence of a new monarch is the people of Kwo chiefdom in Qua’an-Pan local government Area LGA of Plateau State. Investigation by LEADERSHIP revealed that the Long Kwo stool, a second-class chieftaincy status became vacant in July 1988, following the transition to glory of the last occupant of the seat, late Miskoom Hoomkwap Sule II. It was further learnt that from 1988 to date, attempts were made to have the stool occupied without success, as a result of either court cases or lack of quorum by the kingmakers as a results of deaths, as well as the persistent disagreements between the princes on methods to be adopted. The situation has left Kwo chiefdom and its component villages of Turning, Barkin Ciyawa, Kurgwi, Npap, amongst others without a chief for about 33 years now. Besides, many are wondering what fate had befallen Kwo monarch as children who are  33 years old have never known or see a Long Kwo Chief in their life time. It is against this background that recently, the youths in the area after persistent patience, embarked on a protest calling on the Plateau State government to ensure the emergence and installation of a new Long Kwo. During the protest, the youth carried placards with inscriptions that read: ‘Installation of Long Kwo, the panacea/solution to the repellent situation and tragedies in Kwo Chiefdom’; and ‘A call to His Excellency Rt. Hon. Simon Lalong Plateau State governor, for the need to install Long Kwo.’ It is believed that the princes too are not at ease with the outburst of the people and are ready to do the needful. This followed their agreement to adopt situation on ground after the government gave them another opportunity to select a new Long Kwo. As the people await further directives, no less than six princes have indicated interest to occupied the stool. Our correspondent gathered that those in the race include Ambassador Yahaya Kwande, former Nigerian Ambassador to Switzerland, whose ambition of occupying the seat was thwarted by the court ruling as well as Colonel Fidelis Attahiru, a retired army officer and now a business man. Also in the race for the stool of the Long Kwo are Miskoom Larry  Peters  Bawa, a business mogul and an executive director of Duncan Group of Companies  and chairman, Lamebakena Properties,  Ghana; Miskoom Cornelius Shekarau, a business man; Miskoom Danladi Nkup, a former journalist and farmer, and Miskoom John Aloko, also a retired civil servant. Others include Miskoom Linus Layi Anden, the immediate past acting general manager of Plateau Express Services Ltd; Miskoom Benedict Bamshal Mairiga, a medical doctor; Miskoom John Hoomkwap and Ibrahim Hoomkwap, both business men and children of the last Long Kwo, late Miskoom Hoomkwap Sule II. The list is endless, but the outcome will be significant because it will give the people a sense of joy and peace as well as create a united family. It will also promote development because Kwo chiefdom covers a lot of vast area with abundant agricultural resources. The chiefdom is predominantly an agrarian community which attracts many people from within and outside the local government. As one of the chiefdoms in Goemai land of Kwararafa kingdom, it has four ruling houses of Mpoema, Lakwaram, Kaskang and Nuku with Attua (Ntuan) as the founder. Whoever that is chosen by the kingmakers will become the 27th Long Kwo to occupy the seat in the history of the chiefdom.