By salifu usman, abuja The minister of youth and sports development, mr sunday dare, said the best model to develop   nigerian sports is through private public partnerships that resonates with what obtains in advanced countries. He made the assertion at the weekend after he visited the ilaji sports facilities in oloyo town, akanran, ona ara local government area of oyo state. Speaking after a tour of the facilities which has football pitches, handball court, table tennis hall , basketball court, golf course, gym, swimming pool, and hotel  accommodation, the minister described the facilities as world class. “These are world class facilities that compare with what obtains in Europe and other parts of the world where sports are serious business. You have invested so much in these facilities, you may not get the return on your investment now, but you would get it later. These facilities need to be given visibility and put to good use. “the federal ministry of youth and sports will be interested in partnering with you so that we can camp our athletes here with minimal distractions,” dare said. According to the minister, “i will soon be sending some of my directors here on a tour to  inspect  the facilities.  The ministry would be willing to partner with you for the benefit of our sports. This is in line with our public private partnership and new sports industry policy. If we have twenty other Nigerians like you, doing this, then we can experience rapid sports development that will groom athletes and bring return on investment.” The proprietor of ilaji sports resort, Engineer Dotun Sanusi, said he is ready to partner with the ministry for good use of the facilities. “i feel humbled to have you visit our facilities. This is our little contribution to building future stars for our country. We are ready and available to partner with the ministry of youth and sports development so that these facilities can be put to good use. “We have an academy where players from ages 4-25 train. Our vision is to produce future stars for our national teams and those that would also play in Europe. We are still expanding and believe that Nigerian sports can benefit from our noble initiative,” Sanusi stated.