By Francis Ugwoke At such a time of dwindling oil fortunes and resultant effect on the economy, the nation’s maritime industry is considered as key in filling some gaps. This is even moreso with the sector being adjudged as next to oil in contribution to the economy. In the past few years, the sector has been generating at least about N3trillion each year. And this is formally. Informally, the sector could be raking over N4trillion every year or more. This is if all the fraudulent practices in terms of under-declarations or under-invoicing and outright concealment being perpetrated by  importers,    customs agents and shipping agents  are  addressed. Capacity of the law enforcement agents to address issues of smuggling will also lead to increase in revenue generation from the sector. The current scenario is that what is lost by the government goes to private pockets of  individual personnel working with agencies of the state.  Last year, the Customs posted a revenue generation of N1.5trillion. This was despite all the economic difficulties suffered worldwide as a result of the ravages of coronavirus pandemic. Observers argue that  the Customs  could rake more  revenue than it has done over the years if all the loopholes to fraudulent practices  in the system are plugged. On the other hand, there is the strong belief that if the potentials in the industry are developed, the sector could be raising as much as more than half of the nation’s annual budget. Dirty deals at ports The nation’s ports are haven to trade malpractices.  What has been at stake is the national economy that is being shortchanged on daily basis for the past decades. Everyone appears out to work out his/her own way of benefitting from what is seen as national cake. At some point in the past, some importers were even evading payment of duties and were allegedly ‘flying containers’. Now that era appears to be gone, but other forms of trade malpractices have remained in the system. The ugly scenario benefits the importers, their customs agents/freight forwarders and most importantly the key elements among the agencies of government, particularly some unscrupulous Customs personnel. The importer underpays, conceals or under-declares and settles it out with those who are supposed to check him. Incidentally, settling with the customs and others at the ports has never been enough to save such  importers as they are again confronted some meters away from the ports gate and along the highways where their goods  are  intercepted over  what the resident officers  at the ports had ignored for obvious reasons.  Like the resident customs officers, this set of  operatives  engage in another round of  extortion  which is  capped  with a  demand notice (DN)  to fulfill all righteousness  as  the reason for the interception.  Other issues at ports Beyond the above scenario, the nation’s ports industry is suffering a lot of other issues. The multinational shipping agents and indeed the terminal operators are not left alone. The shipping lines and their agents are engaged in under-declaration of  gross registered tonnage (GRT)  of vessels in a bid to pay less duties. The nation loses so much revenue as a result. Clearing in the nation’s ports is usually a herculean task because most times some processes are done physically instead of online. Even as the importer pays his duties online and carries out other processes online, he is still confronted with queries that will force him to appear physically before the government personnel.  He has to respond to several alerts, some of which are designed purposefully to extort him. There are some of the alerts he expects knowing fully he may have been involved in some trade malpractices listed above. Yet there are  many  that are simply  frivolous and deliberately to extort him.  The  importers and their agents also suffer  congestion and other bureaucratic bottleneck s in the system  which affect easy clearance of goods. Some could be infrastructure related, including the Lagos ports gridlock that has  slowed down movement of goods.  Achieving ports efficiency Apparently worried about the situation in the ports and its negative impact on trade facilitation, the federal government  in the middle of  December 2020 appointed the Nigerian Shippers Council  (NSC) as lead agency for the implementation of the Nigerian Ports Process Manual (NPPM). The appointment places on the  shoulders of the Council  the responsibility of overseeing ports operations on daily basis. Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo while launching the NPPM  said its  implementation  will improve the anti-corruption ranking of the country before the international community. Osinbajo said apart from achieving efficiency in ports operations, there was the need for an effective implementation of ideas that will change the perception and ranking of Nigeria in the Corruption Perception Index (CPI) of Transparency International. The  process manual is  aimed at addressing vulnerabilities in the port system with emphasis on creating an enabling environment for port users. To observers, the choice of the ports economic regulator for the job is therefore for obvious reasons. The Council has been dear to all in terms of the efforts to improve on trade facilitation at the ports. The Council  had confronted shipping service providers as well as consumers of shipping services over issues affecting trade. The target has been to enthrone efficient service delivery in the nation’s seaports. This will give Nigeria  a pride of place as the hub of shipping in the West African sub-region. As a government agency, the Council has been using its offices to champion  the interest of shippers and other stakeholders for an enviable infrastructural development that will enhance trade. It has also been in the forefront of  ensuring that service providers  are well equipped  with modern technology for  efficient cargo handling  operations. Government and indeed other stakeholders are aware of this. It was therefore in recognition that the Council was given this national assignment. Observers believe that the statement credited to the VP clearly shows how much the Council is held in high esteem. In the maritime circle, the appointment is indeed  interpreted as one of trust on the Council having shown dedication to achieving an efficient service delivery over the years.  Resolve of NSC In the past few years, the executive secretary of the Council, Mr Hassan Bello has been in the forefront of speaking out  the expectations of  all stakeholders for an enduring efficient port system. He had been pointing out the responsibilities of the government in infrastructure provisions. Bello had at different times pointed out the consequences of poor ports infrastructure to the national economy. He does not want Nigeria’s neighbouring  countries  to  take  advantage of  this by cornering  cargoes meant  for Nigerian ports. Often times  this had been the case as some  shipping lines and importers  had at critical times diverted cargoes to neighbouring ports. Some of these goods are smuggled into the country, particularly automobiles and other goods. The NSC  in a bid to check this had championed for a lasting solution to the poor access roads. – Ugwoke, journalist, wrote from Apapa called for the need to link the ports with rails, a project that the Transport Minister, Hon Rotimi Amaechi sees  as imperative to smooth trade. It is for the sake of improving on trade facilitation that the Council embarked on the dry ports projects that will bring shipping services nearer to the people far away from the seaports.  When these projects are fully executed by the concessionaires, it will be a major boost to all forms of international trade, including export trade. Industry stakeholders believe that what qualifies the Council for the current role of overseeing the ports is the confidence which the government and the  stakeholders have on the agency. This was  earned over the years in terms of determination shown in developing a roadmap to addressing all issues affecting trade. *Ugwoke, Journalist, wrote from Apapa 