By Shamseddin Giwa  | Yes, you did not plan for this but here you are. Married without a job perhaps because you lost it. It is a very tricky situation to handle and the last you need is pressure but pressure will come. Fortunately, there are ways you can make things easier for yourself until get back up. Wake up to the reality and tell yourself the truth: You no longer have a job. Wherever you were working before is now in the past. This is your reality now. Whatever you have been able to get from there in terms of saving, experience and network needs to be calculated so that you can plan how to use them. Home is your last fortress. The place you go to when it all falls apart. The place from where you seek energy to back and have another go. This simply means you need to protect the peace and order in your home. This, you can only do with a spouse who gives you peace so, in addition to keeping the place in order, you also need to do whatever good it takes to keep your wife supportive at this point. If you had not done this before, it will be more challenging to do it now but it is your best option. Don’t expect her not to react, you know you have not been too nice in the past so let her, you need her. To get your wife to be at her best, you have to carry her along but it’s a tricky thing to do because you also want to keep her confident that her world is not about to crash. Even wives who are strong and supportive have fears too. You want to harness all the support and strength without pushing her into chaos and fear because then, that would take away the peace you need in the home. Set your priorities again. You no longer have a job so you need to adjust to the new life. You are living with one less source of income you have not been able to replace yet so, your spending needs to reflect it. Cut your spending: Look for the places where you can save money after all, it is money you are no longer earning. Keep only what is basic and necessary. That way, you are able to stay afloat for much longer. Self-pity will not help you in any way. Losing your job is not the end of you. There is a bigger job out there but self-pity is one way to prevent yourself from getting there. Be fair to your family. Your family did not lose you your job so please do not take it out on them. They are also affected by it. Even if things are not as nice as they should be, your presence should not be an additional reason for negative emotions. Put yourself out there. One of the most common things that happen when one loses a job is that people hide from the world. You suddenly feel inadequate in a way and conversations with people become awkward. You vanish off social media and the real world but the idea is to get you out there enough because people who do not know you need a link won’t connect you. Do less of Instagram, more of LinkedIn. Become a superman on job sites and speak to people who you may always have links. Decide what direction you want to face and do not be caught in limbo. Entrepreneurship is amazing but the beginning can be challenging. If this is where you want to face, prepare yourself for a few years of intense business hustle where decisions are smarter. Even at that, prepare for a few years of having no returns. Let that be your base mind-set. Plan but watch your expectations. If you achieve more, you are better off than expecting high and achieving nothing. If you are looking to apply to another company, do it with zeal. Many applications end with disappointing replies. You need to punch through the disappointment to get to that success mail you need. There is no time to waste. Enrol in something that develops you and adds value. It could be another degree, a skill, certification or training. Have a direction for it though. Add value in a way that it aligns with you goals. Watch who you hang with. At this point, anyone who is able to provide conversation without appearing to judge you would look like a friend but you want to be very careful with who you mix with. Pick people who align with your goals or at least have something that can encourage or help you get there faster/better. Resist trying to drown your pain with alcohol or substance. First, you are broke and you cannot afford it. Secondly, these would only keep you away from having a clear head to be able to make clean decisions. Create a situation with your partner where you are able to talk more. Talking helps. You can also write out your thoughts in a private journal. It helps a lot to just let it all out. You have more time on your hands, make it count in the home. IT IS YOUR HOME. Helping to do more things does not make you a lesser man. See it as a chance to bond more with your family and define more, how you want things to be (without becoming the tyrant nobody wants around). It may also become more appealing to speak with girls and as strange as it is, you’d suddenly find the energy and means to get the money that this requires. Don’t ever let yourself forget that you’d be spending money that could be going into getting you out of your current situation. Love yourself more and spend on your dreams instead. Different people react to stress and pressure in different ways. Comfort spending is also a strong possibility, where you just feel the need to buy something and spend money. This is one way money is lost. To work around it, make plans by listing out all you want to do. Do this before you actually get the money so your head is quite clear. When the money comes, stick with your list and let it be your guide no matter the temptation. The last thing you want is to sit down, money spent, looking at something you just bought, something you do not need. Gambling and Betting is not the way to go. You will only find more pains there. Betting houses are setup to make profits and that means finding a way to get money off gamblers and people who bet. You cannot afford to be one of those people. No matter how lucky you are feeling, remember, “the house always wins” and that statement has been existing long before you. Take this time to get closer to your Creator. Even if you don’t believe, what would it hurt? You need all the forces to work for you now so why not? Exercise and stay fit no matter how foolish it seems. A healthy body helps the mind. It could also be a way to release stress. Embrace comedy, things and places that make you laugh (so long as another vice is not being added). There’d be more fights at home. Expect it and PLAN ways by which you’d resolve things faster. This is better done when you carry your partner along. This can become the reason you crumbled away or the reason you stood up and became better. Which would you like it to be? You have the power to chase that up.