BY ERNEST NZOR, Abuja The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) declared yesterday that Nigerians from other parts of the country are welcomed and free to stay in the North. The forum maintained that no one has the right to attempt to expel any Nigerian from places where they live lawfully. In a statement by its director, publicity and advocacy, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, the forum said it felt constrained to draw the attention of Nigerians to the dangers of sustained attempts to raise tensions and create fears among Nigerians until they lead to major crises involving groups and regions in the country. The northern elders urged law-abiding herders to stay put and seek protection and in the event where they cannot be protected, they should relocate to safer areas in the country. NEF noted: “In the last few weeks, the Forum has led many responsible groups and individuals to appeal for restraint and respect for the law in  the way we engineer developments that cause tensions, or react to them. Now the nation is facing imminent threats from persons who are bent on pushing all of us nearer to disaster, to help them achieve their nefarious goals. “The Forum particularly notes that continuing narratives and threats, including comments from seemingly responsible Nigerians and even elected officials who swore to protect the rights of all citizens and the survival of the country, are raising fears and passions that could make it easy to break more laws of the land and pitch citizens against each other. “There are efforts to create multiple sources of falsehood in videos and other inflammatory materials in the media clearly targeted at inciting people to act violently against each other. Allegations of planned or actual genocide are being made with reckless abandon, and even the international community is being lobbied in futile efforts to sell the fiction that some groups are intent on mass extermination of other groups. “The latest communication by the Yoruba Council of Elders to the United Nations is an example of lamentable desperation of some groups to erode our security and integrity as a country, and it is more regrettable that it is the handiwork of so-called elders who should forfeit all rights to that honour.” The northern elders said they would continue to work to retrieve the country from the dangerous cliff where it has been placed by irresponsible people, adding that some of these persons are in positions of responsibility. The forum said it has concluded plans to meet with governors in the North and South to improve responsible collaboration and synergy, as well as visit communities where the elders are influential with a view to lowering tensions and provide assurances and comfort. NEF stated: “We repeat our demands that Fulani who have broken no laws must be protected from abuse wherever they are. We ask all governments to identify criminals among the Fulani and subject them to the laws of the land. Similarly, we demand the cessation of threats and attacks by local ethnic defenders on Fulani communities. People who have broken the law by attacking and harassing Fulani for just being Fulani must be brought to book. “We urge northern governors to prepare to receive law-abiding Fulani herders who may be compelled to relocate. We urge all northerners to assure Nigerians from other parts of the country that they are safe and welcome to continue to stay in the north. The Forum repeats: it is not a crime to be a member of any ethnic group, and no one has the right to attempt to expel any Nigerian from places where they live lawfully”. The forum also advised President Muhammadu Buhari and governors to consult and explore measures that would lower tensions. “The fight against armed criminals must be pursued on all fronts and with a lot more seriousness. The criminal must not reap from the suspicions and fears which his activities also generate”, it added.