By ACHOR ABIMAJE  | There has been an alarming spike in the rate of violent crimes, assassination and kidnapping for ransom in Jos and Bukuru metropolis. In trying to stem the tide and bring back normalcy and security in the state, governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, vowed to sign the death warrant for anyone convicted for kidnapping. Lalong made this known during the swearing in of the state’s substantive president of the Customary Court of Appeal, Barr Sati Patrick Dapit and five other judges of the State High Court and Customary Court of Appeal at the Government House, Rayfield, Jos. The governor, who described incidences of kidnapping and other violent crimes in the state as worrisome, frowned at the situation where suspected kidnappers who were arrested are not prosecuted as at when due and, in some cases, released without charge. “This situation perhaps emboldens the continuous onslaught on the citizens by kidnappers. While we are addressing the issue with the police relating to arrest, investigation and prosecution, I want to appeal to our judges to be very firm in trying such cases when brought before them as kidnapping is fast becoming an industry with no one immune from the menace. “As governor, I have promised to sign the death warrant in respect of anyone convicted of kidnapping which is giving our people sleepless nights, driving away prospective investors and further impoverishing our people. Many of them are forced to pay ransoms to secure the release of loved ones which is making people afraid to pursue their legitimate businesses including farming,” he said. Earlier, in January, the governor signed the anti-kidnapping, anti-land grabbing, cultism and other anti-violence related matters bill also passed by the House of Assembly into law. Lalong stated the law was long overdue because of the increase in kidnapping, cultism and other violent crimes within the state. Residents within the area recount reports of recurrent kidnapping and cult related violence in Jos and Bukuru metropolis on a daily basis. Residents of Rayfield, Du, Dong village, State, Federal Low Cost, Rantiya, Gwaraktop, Lamingo, Vom, New Abuja area among others places are not spared of the same incidences as they also record a fair share of the menace. LEADERSHIP Weekend reports the corpse of an administrative staff of the Federal Radio Corporation, Highland FM in Jos, Mrs Kenmwan Pwul, was recovered and buried after she was killed on December 23, 2020, by kidnappers who invaded her residence in Du, Jos South local government area few days ago. It was gathered her six-year-old daughter, Kenmwan Pwul, was taken away by the abductors, after shooting her, and was only released after they collected a huge ransom from the family members. Similarly, a world-renowned Professor of Cyto-genetics, Gabriel Hemnave Asenge, was also brutally murdered by unknown assailants in Jos, Plateau State. Until his death, Asenge was the chairman, Board of Directors of the Regional Bio Research Centre Rayfield Jos. The 71-year-old professor, was described as a decent, quiet, dignified person, and seldom gets angry, agitated or into conflict with others.