By The Society for Media Advocacy on Health, Nigeria, Medical experts recommend spacing or having children every three years rather than too many and too quickly as a most cost-effective way to prevent maternal, infant, and child mortality. This is because it curbs the number of unintended pregnancies, the number of abortions, and the proportion of births at high risk, thereby stemming overpopulation with its attendant economic consequences. Reproductive health experts sees family planning as the tool which individuals and couples uses to attain their desired number of children or the spacing and timing of their childbirths. The planning may involve the determination of the number of children a woman wishes to have, including the choice to have no children and the age at which she wishes to have them. Contraceptive methods and other techniques are used to control the timing of reproduction.  Despite that family planning plays Invaluable roles, saves lives and accelerates sustainable human and economic development, yet those who need the services cannot freely access it. Its use is influenced by external factors such as marital situation, career considerations, financial position or disabilities that may affect ability to have children and raise them. But, the major barrier to the practice of family planning in Nigeria is the cultural factor. Yet, Nigeria is signatory to the United Nation’s provision which defines family planning as a fundamental human right which empowers a woman to take decisions and responsibility for her childbearing issues.  The UN had since five decades ago affirmed the right to family planning. In fact, in 2012, the United Nations (UN) issued a report declaring that contraception is a human right. The 1968 International Conference on Human Rights first recognised family planning as a human right. And flowing from that, the World Population Day, held annually on July 11, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has focused its attention on “Family Planning is a Human Right.”  Amanda Klasing, Human Rights Watch’s Senior Researcher, said, “Chipping away at women’s access to information is a direct attack on their access to healthcare, and the right to make informed autonomous decisions about their lives and their bodies.” Also Tehran Proclamation from the conference states added, “Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children.”  The conference linked family planning to the right to dignity and worth of the human person.
UNFPA’s Executive Director, Natalia Kanem, “Family planning is not only a matter of human rights; it is also central to women’s empowerment, reducing poverty, and achieving sustainable development.” Although the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2011 committed to the policy of providing family planning commodities to all women at public facilities free of charge, women still remain unable to enjoy this right.  For instance, a study on barriers to acceptance of family planning in Abakiliki, Ebonyi State capital in 2015, by C.O.U Esike, O.B. Anozie, M. Ani, K. Ekwedigwe, A.K. Onyebuchi, P.O. Ezeonu, O.U.J. Umeora of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Nigeria, found that the greatest fears that prevented the majority of the women 166 (50.3 percent) from accepting family planning was fear of troublesome side effects followed by 110 (33.3 percent) women who did not use family planning because their husbands objected to it. Of the number, 27 women (8.2 percent) each did not use family planning because it is against their culture and religion, respectively. Majority said that they had enough information on family planning.  They concluded that though some progress had been made in family planning, a lot more needs to be achieved if new programmes are designed to involve the men more actively and address other identified fears among women with regards to family planning. However, health experts are of the opinion that appeals to fundamental or inherent human rights will not move either individuals or governments unless followed by a well-designed action to take care of the observed impediments to enable women and female adolescents enjoy family planning a fundamental human right.  The National Family Planning Communication Plan (2017-2020) has left us with strategies for boosting the use of modern contraceptives in Nigeria to include increasing the proportion of women who are knowledgeable of modern Family Planning methods from the current level of 83.8 percent to 95 percent; to achieve 50 percent coverage of couples who discuss Family Planning issues; to achieve 50 percent coverage of political leaders and decision makers in Nigeria who openly speak in support of Family Planning and to achieve yearly release of at least 50 percent of the funds required by each state for adequate Family Planning service delivery.  No doubt, all stakeholders owe it as a duty to urgently ensure that this human right is not only legally enforced, but invest in use of strategies of communication, persuasion and education to achieve this. 