It doesn’t matter if you’re a Nigerian child born and raised in the country, or you grew up further afield, there’s something we all have in common. The parental and societal pressure to study medicine or law at university. This obsession of Nigerian parents to study medicine, law and other degrees, such as engineering, pharmacy, accounting and finance, may have young Nigerians thinking that no other options exist. Well, I can assure you, that is quite the contrary, and I am an example of that. For my undergraduate degree, I decided to study French and German. That’s right, I have a degree in Modern Languages. When I would tell aunties, uncles or family friends what I was studying at university, the revelation was often met with a look of confusion and a muffled, “Oh…OK” as though to hurry the conversation along. Often assumptions were that I wanted to become a teacher, translator or interpreter, all careers that I had no interest in pursuing. But I can understand the reactions. It’s rare to hear of a Nigerian woman studying Modern Languages at university level, whether in Nigeria or among the diaspora. Studying a Modern Languages degree doesn’t instantly mean you want to go down the teaching or translating route. In fact, out of all my peers on my course, I know of only one person that went down that route. Our careers span a range of industries from Marketing, Law, Journalism, Recruitment, Consultancy, Public Relations, Banking and more. This shows that with a languages degree you can go into a huge range of careers…the world is pretty much your oyster. I can appreciate that for a lot of our parents, it’s the the job security that comes with studying such degrees and professions that has them trying to make their children study one of these subjects. Yet we as a society need to understand that they are not the be all and end all. I’ve seen fellow peers seriously unhappy and depressed as they’ve been forced to study a subject they have no passion for. Medicine and law are not degrees to be taken if you have no interest; they are demanding and require so much dedication. We put the likes of medicine and law on too much of a pedestal, when there are equally as good degrees to study in the arts and humanities route. I’ve also seen the way some degrees have been rubbished because they don’t fit out cultural expectations. We need to encourage more young Nigerians to enter teaching and regard this profession with more respect than we already do. English, History, Sociology and Anthropology are all worthwhile degrees. We need to encourage students to study the arts and humanities as much as we do the sciences. Naturally, my choice of degree has raised many eyebrows. Nonetheless, I’m very lucky that both my parents are every open minded when it comes to what my sisters and I choose to study, their main emphasis being that we choose to study something we enjoy. With this attitude, it’s led to not just my “wild” choice, but also one sister completing a degree in German & Philosophy, and the other starting a degree in History later this year. From day one, our parents have encouraged our different passions and have done their fair share of responding to relatives and friends perplexed reactions to our choices. Continuously defending your choices and passion can be exhausting, but I stand by it and can list only a string of positives of studying languages and how beneficial it has been and continues to be as I develop in my career. It’s not just the practicalities of learning a language that serves a purpose, but it’s also the transferable skills which you can take into any career, for example cross-cultural awareness, problem-solving, listening skills, multitasking, adaptability and the list goes on. Studying these subjects can facilitate a deeper intercultural understanding, develop your analytical skills, critical thinking and hone your creativity. Our society needs to open its eyes to the world beyond medicine and law. We can’t all be doctors and lawyers, and that’s OK. We need teachers, artists and creative thinkers. Many will disagree with me, but the Arts and the Humanities are key. It will take time for people to understand the reality but the ones who know the role of language or other arts degrees, know that there is plenty of opportunity for success and growth. So, my message to young Nigerians – keep on following your passion. True success comes from what you love.  