Chairman of Executive Group and Board Member, Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), Dr Ayo Ogunsan, has hailed the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Abubakar Adamu over his tenure extension, describing his achievements as unrivaled. Recall that Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammad Dingyadi, who briefed State House correspondents, at the presidential villa, had disclosed that “Mr President has decided that Adamu will continue to serve as the IGP for the next three months, to allow for a robust and efficient process of appointing a new one. This is not unconnected to the desire of Mr. President to, not only have a smooth handover, but to also ensure the right officer is appointed into that position. Mr. President is extending by three months to allow him get into the process of allowing a new one.” In a statement, Ogunsan, showering encomium on Adamu, said: “Upon assuming office, the indefatigable IGP had demonstrated courage in leadership by blaming the rot in the force on weak leadership — a view which largely shows his commitment to leave the system better than how he met it. “This tenure extension is a well deserved one, going by the unrivaled achievements of IGP Adamu which has shown in all areas, including a boost of the morale of the officers and men of the force, via programmed geared towards capacity building. “For a stronger and better democracy, officers and men have been well trained for election operations as well as other civil matters of national importance. “Although banditry remains a key challenge in present day Nigeria, he has continued to do his best in ensuring that the vandals and cannibals are totally wiped out of the land. “The police boss, to a large extent, has always advocated for a well reformed policing system that will rub off on the Police Council, Police Service Commission and the Ministry of Police Affairs in all ramifications. “In a bid to reform the police, some of his achievements which make the tenure extension a well deserved one include but not limited to enhancement of operational capacity with the procurement of patrol vehicles including 46 police smart surveillance (CCTV Camera-on-the Move) vehicles, tactical operations vehicles fitted with state-of-the-art surveillance equipment, armoured personnel carriers; troop carriers and seven nnti-riot water cannon trucks. “Under the visionary and focused IGP Adamu, the country has recorded the establishment of the Nigeria Police National Command and Control Centre (NPF-C4i), first phase of the Nigerian Police Crime and Incident Data Centre (NPC & IDB). The recent renovation and commissioning of dilapidated police barracks and newly constructed blocks of residence for the officers is also a remarkable one worth the mention. “It has been two years of having a visionary cop redefining policing and it seems plausible to conclude that his sterling performance is closely tied to his policing experience, no doubt. Lauding the president over the decision he described as “thoughtful”, Ogunsan added that, “such thoughtful decision by President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, is worth a round of applause. For a police boss whose hallmark for leadership is excellence, the present administration couldn’t have thought less than extending the tenure of a resilient, diligent and hardworking personality.”