By Blessing Bature-Akpakpan, Independent Monitors of the National Social Investment Programs in Abia state have been advised to exhibit a high level of dedication and patriotism while carrying out their assignment, to ensure the realization of the set goals and objectives of the programs. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, gave the charge at the flag-off training and onboarding of Independent Monitors held at the Michael Okpara Auditorium, Umuahia, Abia state. The Minister who was represented by the state team leader for the training, Mr. Abdulkarim Ilyasu said  that the federal government is committed to reducing  the level of poverty in the country through the SIPs and other efforts. “Today we are flagging off the training of 63 Independent Monitors who will monitor the programme at the community level. The Independent Monitors will be assigned to monitor programme beneficiaries within their locality in schools, households, and market clusters with the focus of ensuring that the Primary Objectives of these programmes are achieved. “It is therefore my expectation that you carry out this responsibility with outmost diligence and sincerity. Please be informed that the Ministry will not hesitate to take you off the Programme if you are found violating the terms of your engagement. I therefore urge you to carry out this task with a sense of patriotism as we all work towards the vision of Mr. President to lift 100 Million Nigerians out of Poverty in the next 10 years.” In his welcome remarks, the State Focal Person on Social Investment Programs to Abia state Government Mr. Chinenye Nwaogu described monitoring and evaluation as a critical component of  federal government’s intervention programs including Home Grown School feeding, Conditional Cash Transfer, GEEP and N-power. “These programmes are aimed at enhancing the livelihoods of those occupying the lowest rung of the socio-economic ladder. It is at no cost to the beneficiaries.” Mr Nwaogu also thanked the state  Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for sustaining poverty alleviation programs which he said are top on his developmental agenda. “Governor Ikpeazu is committed  to mainstream Social inclusion programmes in Abia State. Abia has remained a reference state in the implementation of Social Investment Programme. I therefore charge the independent monitors to take their work very seriously and maintain the integrity of the Programme.” 