I’ll like to appreciate God for availing me the opportunity to resume this weekly column on this great newspaper once again. This will enable me to contribute my ideas to ongoing national debates on issues that affect us as a people and a nation. But before delving into any matter, I feel it an obligation to register my profound honour and respect by writing in loving memory of a great man and hero, mentor and instructor who lived and died for a purpose, took it upon himself to build people and prepare them not just for leadership but independent life. I had concluded arrangements to have an audience with him in December ahead of the resumption of my column which was suspended in 2010, but death dealt us a severe blow with his painful and shocking demise. Many people who came in contact with this great man have said their own versions about him. He was different things to different people depending on your experience with him. The news of his death on the night of December 11, 2020 was shocking and devastating. A man of big ideas indeed who was always on the fast lane as long as ideas were concerned, the late chairman believed in the workability of every thought and idea. He did not take no for an answer and did not toy with them under any excuse either by way of a joke or trial. The death of Sam is a big blow not just to his immediate family and the LEADERSHIP family but to the entire media community. Even though he was not a media person by profession, he set high standards and kept all professionals on their toes within the industry, both locally and internationally. His father’s journalistic footprints and influence must have tolled greatly on him and shaped his passion for the media. He took the LEADERSHIP titles to the highest heights to the admiration of many and envy of few. He made sure the tabloid performs very well in its traditional responsibilities of public enlightenment, education, sensitization, information and entertainment. Let me declare a minute silence for him and all LEADERSHIP staff who have gone to be with the Lord either while in service or out of it. I remember Editor Shehu Dauda. May their hardworking and gentle souls and the souls of other departed media colleagues worldwide rest in peace with the Lord. My coming in contact with chairman in 2006 changed my whole psyche about life and work. As a human being, of course, he was not perfect. His goal was to make people believe in themselves so that it could show in everything they do and get value for it. I left the Daily Times of Nigeria in 2006 for the LEADERSHIP Group as a correspondent covering some land beats but just a few months after joining LEADERSHIP I was appointed Political Editor. When Mr Simon Reef, the then Sunday Editor, conveyed the news of the promotion to me verbally, I almost ran away from the company. I told him I cannot do the job because I was used to other beats other than covering politics. He laughed and told me not to disappoint or disgrace the Middle Belt spirit which is always capable and able to do all things. After talking to me encouragingly and giving me insights into how to go about the job, I made up my mind and stayed and immediately my letter of appointment was handed over to me. In less than three months I was promoted to the position of Group Politics Editor. I was not the only one that was elevated; many others too who were more familiar with some form of editorial work were promoted outside their comfort zones and that was the beginning of new thinking for those affected. It then dawned on me that I had to think outside the box and work diligently to justify the confidence reposed in me. Sam Nda-Isaiah who did all the promotions from his office while assessing each and every one of us would only call you whenever there is an issue of a missing or false story. A highly detribalized man, he did not care where you came from and who might have brought you to the company. There were some journalists who worked with LEADERSHIP until they left without meeting him face to face or having any physical encounter with him, especially those within the middle and lower cadres. This was because he only gets to know you in person when there is an issue before him involving you. He did not necessarily need to see you. Sometimes he demanded to know you after seeing your byline on the paper. He was tough, firm, unbendable and very argumentative, especially when he believes that his position was correct. You don’t have to bow to him when you believe in your own argument just to impress him. He liked it when you argue constructively to the end with facts that overwhelm his own reasoning. He did not play to the gallery and did not condone such behavior from anyone. He didn’t believe in the deficit ingredients of ethnicity, tribalism, religion and regionalism. Even though he was a trained Pharmacist by profession, he was so passionate about mass communication, hence his incursion into the mucky terrain of journalism and media administration. He will give you a story line to go work on it and bring it to him directly or through any of the management Editors. You dare not tell him about any encumbrance or hitch that you may have encountered in the process of carrying out the assignment. Of course he knew you must encounter them, but would insist that you do it by doing your very best. That created a very strong will and determination in us to do things and even face life’s challenges.    This dogged spirit he instilled in us helped us to break hard grounds even outside the LEADERSHIP stable.  Most people did not realise the training we were forced to receive under his tutelage until he transited. But for me who had no godfather or any guide aside from my parents in the village, I had no choice than to grab this opportunity of free tutelage and mentorship to help build and sustain life.  Unlike his younger brother Abraham, Oga Sam was not too much of a spiritual or religious person, but his firm grip on strategic principles tallied with biblical injunctions of self-growth and development, love and brotherliness. He respected superior ideas and frowned at lazy or careless thoughts that diminished competence and potentials.  Whenever he called for meetings he dominated discussions and did not believe anyone had something to say except you are smart to insist on saying something. As a core capitalist that he was, it was better to miss a story than an advert which brings money to the company. He can surcharge you for missing a story but can dismiss you for missing an advert.  He sacked me about seven times and reinstated me seven times. My last and funny experience with him was when he called me in faraway South Africa and told me he had sacked me for travelling without permission. I told him I had a copy of my permission with me but he insisted on believing the Editor (names withheld) who wanted to put me in trouble.  As soon as he sacked me, I immediately called the advert manager to withdraw the 25 page advert I had earlier sent for publication. When at the close of production he discovered that I had moved over to a long waiting Peoples Daily newspaper as their State House Editor with the advert, he immediately directed that I be reinstated along with the 25-page advert. At this stage I started doing what in the local parlance the call ‘yanga’. Of course it was an opportunity for me to negotiate which was quite rare in the company.  In the end, I got 20 per cent as commission from the 5 per cent that I used to get. As God would do it, I succeeded in getting the advert published in both LEADERSHIP with 20 per cent profit and the Peoples Daily with 40 per cent. It was an excellent deal for me.  When together with my wife I approached the chairman to tell him of my political ambition to contest for the Plateau State House of Assembly in October 2010, he insisted I should go for the House of Representatives instead of the state assembly. His argument was that having worked in LEADERSHIP as Politics Editor, Group Politics Editor, Group News Editor and Associate Editor, State House, my knowledge about political developments in the country was beyond the local and state levels and therefore I needed to be at the National Assembly. But after convincing him that we operate a zoning system for all elective positions and I needed to start with the State Assembly which was zoned to my ward, he agreed and together with his wife, blessed my ambition and wished us well. I got elected into the State House of Assembly in 2011-2015.  When I was elected into the Federal House of Representatives in 2015-2019, he was so happy that his wish and prayers for me had been achieved. Now that the curtains have fallen on our mentor, it behooves us to reflect on his strong points in life that added value to our lives. I am missing this man sincerely. I don’t concentrate on his weak points at all. After all he was also human and whoever was looking for perfection from him was not fair to him. He made his points bold and clear, both in error and on point. He has built so many of us to where we are today, not by giving us money but the social life capital needed to grow in strategy and survival.  Those of us who worked under this man at different times are very rich in content of what life expects of us and what we can give to life and society. As I said during the day of tributes, those of us who have occupied an editorial or management position in LEADERSHIP can successfully administer this country and our state of origin. We have been taught the basic principles of governance that can be applied anywhere.  We can comfortably lead and manage our individual enterprises as a result of what we have received as content development in LEADERSHIP.  Though many know him as the tough chairman of LEADERSHIP, but Oga Sam was more than that. In his closet he was a caring husband, good father, instructor, politician, analyst/columnist, mentor, keen observer and a patriotic citizen.  I urge us all to keep praying for the family of our late leader, his wife, children and the LEADERSHIP family and make ourselves available for any role that we can play to sustain this great company. Where are the Oga Aniebos, Akwayas, Shemes, Barkindos, Emma Bellos, Ndayebos, Iyobosas, Laras, Simon Reefs, Ohuegbes, Yerimas, Ibrahims, Lawal Sabos? Let us come together to ensure that LEADERSHIP stands strong, viable and move from its present state to a higher ground. 