By Dame Julie Okah Donli The culture of silence among victims of gender based violence and abuse dates back to time immemorial. Although currently, there is massive advocacy on the need for victims to speak up, the reverse was the case in the past where parents, guardians, the society and even religious leaders psychologically manipulated victims into silence. “Wipe your tears and keep your mouth shut, do you want to bring shame and disgrace upon yourself and family? “says the parents/guardian of a girl who has just been raped. The clergymen and women in religious institutions are also not left out; they encourage victims to forgive and forget and leave vengeance to God. Forgetting, means, do not speak about it, it is immoral and sinful to begin to describe how you were sexually abused. Even when victims manage to break the code of silence and speak up, the society takes over from where parents and religious leaders failed to enforce silence. The society does this by asking silly questions such as: “why did it take you so long to speak up?” “why did you visit him at home? What were you wearing when he raped you? Are you sure your dressing did not seduce him? Why didn’t you scream? Are you sure he raped you or are you speaking up because you didn’t enjoy the act? At the end of this psychologically and mentally draining drill, the victim recluses to his/her shell nursing her injury in silence. Encouraging the victims of abuse, especially sexual abuse to speak up requires more than just rhetoric and sensitization on the need to speak up. Individuals, government and non-governmental organisations should provide a perfect atmosphere devoid of criticism, mockery and judgement. This is very important especially in the era of social media where keypad warriors and so called social media influencers criticise victims and accuse them of speaking up merely to garner attention, popularity and sympathy. Everyone who uses social media have at some points in their lives come across pictures of victims of sexual abuse and domestic violence. These pictures and/or videos are shared from one person to the other and from one blog to the other without considering the kind of psychological damage this can cause the victim. Subsequently, it is also important to ensure that the identity of victims is protected when necessary and that concrete efforts are made at seeking redress and justice served to victims. False accusation in gender based violence especially in the area of sexual abuse is one common area where the issue of silence is also greatly pronounced because often times, people jump to the conclusion that a particular man or woman is guilty because someone has accused them of sexual misconduct. Some of these innocent people have attempted to speak up but have been shut down by people who have no patience to listen to the other person’s side of the story. For many, any man accused by a woman of sexual misconduct is guilty and any act or speech of defence on the part of the man to prove his innocence is frowned upon and even repaid with greater hostility. Hence, many men and women including lecturers have lost the courage to speak up and defend themselves when a colleague, or student unjustly accuses them. The fight against the culture of silence can only be won when victims are assured that speaking up will be to their advantage but until then, the cycle of silence continues and this is an enabling factor for more and persistent abuses.