As Nigeria prepares for the celebration of Eid-el-kabir festival, the inspector-general of police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has assured the nation of sustained efforts by the Police Force in fighting crimes and criminality and improving public safety and security across the country. The IGP gave the assurance while charging commissioners of police (CPs) in all the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and their supervisory assistant inspectors-general of police (AIGs), to beef-up security ahead of the Eid-el-kabir celebration, to prevent any untoward situation in their areas of responsibility (AoR) throughout the season and beyond. In a statement, Force PRO, CP Frank Mba, said: “the IGP particularly directed the zonal AIGs and state command CPs to put in place all necessary security measures to ensure a secure, peaceful and incident-free celebration. “They are to, amongst other things, deploy human and other operational assets to carry out confidence building and crime prevention patrols on major highways, residential and industrial areas, vulnerable points, places of worship, other places of public resort and around all critical national infrastructure.” He further said the IGP equally warned that personnel deployed must be professional and mindful of the fundamental rights of the citizens, and discharge their responsibilities with all sense of decorum and alertness. The IGP, while congratulating the Muslim faithful in the country on the occasion of the year 2021 Eid-el-kabir celebration, reiterated that the Force would continue to improve on the recent gains achieved in stabilising security order in parts of the country, protecting lives and property of citizens, and denying space for crimes and criminality to thrive in and around the country. Meanwhile, operatives of the FCT Police Command have arrested Uchenna Eleke, 27 years, Alex Akiti, 28 years and Suleiman Nasir, 50 years, who are suspected members of a notorious four-man ‘one chance’ robbery syndicate operating along Lugbe and Kubwa axis. The suspects were arrested
along Wuse axis during a routine patrol and they were identified by some of their victims. Also Micah Ohah, 38 years-old was arrested alongside the other suspects who identified him as a receiver of the items they steal during their operations. Exhibits recovered include: One (1) green colour Gulf3 reg no. GWA SJ and two mobile phones. Effort was in top gear to arrest the fleeing member of the syndicate and the suspect will be arraigned in court upon conclusion of investigation.