Stakeholders from the Yobe State Government and the federal ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development have met on the need to scale up the number of pupils benefiting from the National Home-grown School Feeding Programme (NHSFP) in the state. The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Faruk while flagging-off stakeholders engagement on enumeration of the programme in Damaturu, notes that the federal government decided to embark on the intervention in order to reduce hunger, malnutrition and generate employment. Faruk, represented by the zonal monitor, Alhaji Ali Grema, says the meeting was organised in order to strengthen partnership and the need to do more on the NHSFP designed to cover the entire country. She says the engagement designed under the umbrella of the government social protection mechanism, was meant to scale-up the number of the pupils benefiting from the programme as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari. “The federal government NHGSFP and the state government team as well as other key stakeholders, are to work jointly and closely to verify the existing numbers of the beneficiaries of the programme and update the records for effectiveness, transparency and accountability.” The commissioner of Humanitarian Affairs in Yobe State, Dr. Abubakar Garba Illiya represented by his permanent secretary, Alhaji Ibrahim Shu’aibu expressed happiness that the programme wil now capture more beneficiaries in the state. “Its quite fascinating that the federal government will scale-up the number of benefiting pupils across the state. We as stakeholders must work hand in hand to avoid mistakes of the past on the programme for better results.” The Yobe State programme manager of NHGSFP, Hajiya Fatsuma Accama says the programme kick started in the state on 30th September 2019 and was piloted in some schools from both rural and urban areas. Accama states that the programme designed to provide nutrition to children in class 1-3 was initiated and funded by the federal government and has been receiving the desired support from the state government. “I want to tell you that the programme is designed and funded by the federal government with vendors receiving their payment directly. But the administration of His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni, has been rendering all necessary support for the success of the programme in Yobe State.” 