I share today a paper presented by Imam Tajudeen M.B. Adigun Ph.D Ameer/Chairman FCT Imams  titled  Importance of Imams’ Forum: Committee of FCT Imams as a Case Study, at the Conference Hall of the Muslim Community Centre (Fu’ad Lababidi Mosque), Zone 3, Wuse Abuja, on June 19, 2021. INTRODUCTION Imam   is  an   Arabic   word   which  means   (“a  leader,”  or  “model”),  imam  is someone who leads Muslim worshippers in prayer(s). In a general sense, imam is  as refer to as the head of the Muslim community (Ummah). The word imam is found in many chapters of the Glorious Qurʾān. And We made of them Imams to guide by Our command when they were patient, and they were certain of Our communications.  AS-SAJDA 32:24 And  We  made  them  Imams  who  guided  (people)  by  Our  command,  and  We revealed to them the doing of good and the keeping up of prayer and the giving of the alms, and Us (alone) did they serve. [An-anbiya 21:73] And when his  Lord tried Ibrahim with certain  words, he fulfilled them. He said: Surely I will make you an Imam of men. Ibrahim said: And of my offspring? My covenant does not include the unjust. [BAQARA 2:124] QUALITIES OF A SUCCESSFUL IMAM Fear of Allah Role model Self Reliance Contentment Focus and Current Self Discipline Generosity Sincerity Patient  and Perseverance Dedication and Commitment Knowledge Brave and Courageous Humble Imam must always pray  for the Ummah and the nation. BROTHERHOOD AND UNITY OF IMAMS The believers are but brethren, therefore make peace between your brethren and be  careful  of  (your  duty  to)  Allah  that  mercy  may  be  received  on  you.  [Hujrat 49:10] Indeed, those who have believed and emigrated and fought with their wealth and lives in the cause of Allah and those who gave shelter and aided they are allies of one another. But those who believed and did not emigrate –  for you there is no guardianship  of  them  until  they  emigrate.  And  if  they  seek  help  of  you  for  the religion,  then  you  must  help,  except  against  a  people  between  yourselves  and whom is a treaty. And Allah is Seeing of what you do. Al-Anfal, Ayah 72. And those who disbelieved are allies of one another. If you do not do so, there will be fitnah on earth and great corruption. Al-Anfal 7: 73 But those who have believed and emigrated and fought in the cause of Allah and those  who  gave  shelter  and  aided  –   it  is  they  who  are  the  believers,  truly.   For them is forgiveness and noble provision. Al-Anfal 7: 74. UNITY IN ISLAM And hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided. And remember the favor of Allah upon you –  when you were enemies and He brought your hearts together and you became, by His favor, brothers. And you were on theedge of a pit of the Fire, and He saved you from it. Thus does Allah make clear to you His verses that you may be guided. AL-Imran 3 : 103 ROLE OF IMAMS IN SECURING THE NATION Security mostly refers to protection from hostile forces, but it has a wide range   of   other   senses:   for   example,   as   the   absence   of   harm   and availability of food. SOME SECURITY CHALLENGES  IN NIGERIA §  Boko Haram (B.H.) §  Farmer/Herders clashes §  Kidnappers §  Robbery §  Oil bunkering §  IPOB/ESN §  Plateau, Taraba, Benue, Zamfara, Kebbi, §  Niger and Kaduna among others. INSECURITY And  Allah  sets  forth  a  parable:  (Consider)  a  town  safe  and  secure  to  which  its means  of  subsistence  come  in  abundance  from  every  quarter;  but  it  became ungrateful to Allah’s favors, therefore Allah made it to taste the utmost degree of hunger and fear because of what they wrought. [AN-NAHL 16:112] Imam should serve as a role model in establishing peace in the society. Imam must continue to preach the importance of peace to their followers. Imam  must  expose  anybody  who  want  to  destabilize  the     peace  and  the security  of the nation. Imam must preach to the  Government and security  agencies to be proactive in dealing     with     the     security     challenges     e.g.     injustice     and     unfairness, unemployment etc. Imam must preach  to the Government to equip security agencies with all kind of supports and logistics. Imam  must  preach  to  the  Government  to  deal  decisively  and  publically  with those  who  are  causing  insecurity  no  matter  how  influential  they  are  in  the society and to assure them  of abundance reward with Allah. PUNISHMENT The  punishment  of  those  who  wage  war  against  Allah  and  His  messenger  and strive to make mischief in the land is only this, that they should be murdered or crucified or their hands and their feet should be cut off on opposite sides or they should be imprisoned; this shall be as a disgrace for them in this world, and in the hereafter they shall have a grievous chastisement. [MAIDA 5:33] SOLUTION TO INSECURITY IN THE NATION [106:1] For the protection of the Qureaish [106:2] Their protection during their trading caravans in the winter and the summer [106:3] So let them serve the Lord of this House [106:4] Who feeds them against hunger and gives them security against fear. SOLUTION And if the people of the towns had believed and guarded (against evil) We would certainly have opened up for them blessings from the heaven and the earth, but they rejected, so We overtook them for what they had earned. A’RAF 7:BRIEF HISTORY OF FCT IMAMS The Committee of FCT Imams (CFII) was formed in the year 2004 through the efforts of some few individuals and through some organizations. Less than fifty Juma’ah Imams and their deputies regularly attended the monthly meetings of the committee which was rotated then among five mosques which are: 1. Fou’ad Lababidi Mosque at Zone 3, 2. Uthman Bn Affan Masjid (Opp. Banex Plaza, Wuse 3. JIBWIS Juma’ah Mosque Berger, 4. Life Camp Central Mosque and 5. Area 11 Juma’ah Mosque, before they finally decided to concentrate at Fou’ad Lababidi Zone 3 . BRIEF HISTORY CONTINUE AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF C.F.I.I. ACHIEVEMENTS ACHIVEMENTS and    non    Muslims CONCLUSION