The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed a case of SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant (lineage B.1.617.2.) in Nigeria. The NCDC, in a statement by its head of communications, Dr Yahya Disu, on Thursday evening, said the variant was detected in a traveler to Nigeria, following the routine travel test required of all international travelers and genomic sequencing at the its National Reference Laboratory in Abuja. Disu said the Delta variant is recognised by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a variant of concern, given its increased transmissibility. He said the variant has been detected in over 90 countries and is expected to spread to more countries, adding that the variant has also been linked to a surge in cases in countries where it is the dominant strain in circulation. According to him, there are ongoing studies to understand the impact of the variant on existing vaccines and
therapeutics. However, he said as part of Nigeria’s COVID-19 response, NCDC has been working with the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), African Centre for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID), and other laboratories within the national network, to carry out genomic sequencing. This, he said will enable the detection of variants of concern, and initiate response activities. “All data on variants from Nigeria have been published on GISAID, a global
mechanism for sharing sequencing data. Given the global risk of spread of the Delta variant, positive samples from international travelers to Nigeria are sequenced regularly. “The Government of Nigeria through the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) has initiated several measures to reduce the risk of spread of COVID-19. This includes the introduction of travel restrictions from countries where there is a surge in cases associated with widespread prevalence of variants of concern. “The national travel protocol which includes compulsory seven-day self-isolation and repeat test on the
seventh day after arrival, are in place to reduce the risk of spread of the virus. It is very important that this is strictly adhered to, to prevent a surge in COVID-19 cases in Nigeria,” he explained. The centre, therefore, urged all Nigerians to ensure strict adherence to public health and social measures in place. “Proven public health and social measures such as physical distancing, frequent handwashing, and proper use of face masks, prevent infections and save lives. The COVID-19 vaccine is safe and effective and offers protection against the disease. “Additionally, states are urged to ensure sample collection and testing for COVID-19 is accessible to the public. Public settings such as schools with accommodation facilities,
workplaces and camps should utilise the approved Antigen-based Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT) for rapid testing of their population,” he urged. According to the director-general of NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, “Although we have seen a low number of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria in the last eight weeks, it is incredibly important that we do not forget to be careful. The surge in cases in countries across the world and Africa is an important reminder of the risk we face. “Please protect yourselves
and the people you love by adhering to the known public health and social measures, getting vaccinated if you are eligible and getting tested if you have symptoms.”