From declaring a state of emergency on the sector, to making teachers of public schools undertake a competency test, to improving schools’ infrastructure, as well as providing free uniforms and instructional materials, education is the fulcrum of the Malam Nasir El-Rufai administration. Indeed, one of the most revolutionary steps that the governor has taken is enthroning transparency in the award of scholarship. Under the leadership of Malam Hassan Rilwan, the Executive Secretary of the ‘’new improved’’ Kaduna State Scholarship and Loans Board, students don’t need ‘’to know someone’’ to get scholarship. The application, selection of candidates and assessing them are all done online at the ‘’paperless Scholarship Board’’. Also, scholarship has been unbundled into three categories, the Need-based, Merit-based and Disability scholarships. The Need-based is strictly for the children of the poor and eligibility is determined by parents’ annual turnover. If the parents are deceased, the Death Certificate will be required. On the other hand, Merit-based scholarship entails the applicant showing evidence that he or she is an exceptional student. This category of scholarship is for high flying students who have been consistently outstanding in their academics for a number of semesters. Indeed, anyone who is physically challenged is eligible for the Disability scholarship. Significantly, there is the loans window, where the government, in conjunction with FCMB, has set aside N2 billion for students to borrow from and fund their education. After graduating and securing a job, the beneficiaries can start the repayment. Workers can also access this window to fund their education. On May 27, 2021, the Board granted 34 students international scholarships and by September, they will proceed for postgraduate studies. The successful 34 scaled a rigorous selection process out of 265 applicants that applied. The scholars comprise 22 first class degree holders, six second class (upper division) degree holders with CGPA of 4.0 and above going for masters. Likewise, three master’s degree holders who bagged a distinction and three others who have merit, will be sponsored for doctorate degrees on foreign scholarship. Indeed, the selection process was transparently done using global best practices. All the 265 that applied were subjected to the use of English and Plagiarism test and 153 applicants passed. Thereafter, each of the 153 applicants was officially contacted and requested to upload a personal statement and a three minutes video. In the end, 79 of them passed. ‘’As part of the transparency, open governance policy and determination of the state government to present only its best for Merit Based Foreign Scholarship, the management and staff of the Scholarship and Loans Board, having shortlisted the candidates, decided to remove itself from the final scoring and selection process.’’, Hassan disclosed. According to him, a team of individuals who have the experience, track record of diligence and objectivity, was constituted to form a Selection Committee. The Executive Secretary further said that ‘’each applicant was scored online by at least three committee members and their final score averaged.’’ Specifically, Hassan advised students not to give up after failing at first trial because the ‘’the overall best student applied for the scholarship twice before succeeding. Another student who scored 37.78% the first time scored 72.22% on the second attempt to clinch the scholarship,’’ he pointed out. Last week, the Executive Secretary was at Kaduna State University (KASU), where he interacted with the management. Afterwards, he disclosed that Kaduna State Government has provided scholarships to cover all tuition fees for indigent and brilliant students, promising that no student will drop out of school due to the increase in school fees in state-owned tertiary institutions. In the 21st century, skills and a good education are the enablers of upward mobility and not circumstance of birth, gender or ethnicity. That is what Governor El[1]Rufai is determined to give the people of Kaduna state.