What was your attraction to trading in Treasury Bills? I attended a seminar sometimes ago where someone explained the investment opportunities in fixed income securities. He said treasury bills are short-term securities issued at a discount for a tenor ranging from 91 to 364 days, such that the income received is the difference between the purchase price and the amount received at maturity or prior to the sale. The attraction for me in T-Bills is that my profit is guaranteed although it might be small. I can collect the interest upfront or decide to take it at the maturity stage. It is also easy to invest in, all I need is to go to my bank and authorize my banker to move funds from my account into T-Bills investment.  How have you been making money from Treasury Bills? It was very attractive for me when the interest rate was about 15 per cent. I usually invest for longer tenor at more than 180 days. Any money – spare money during the period of time, I push them into T-Bills. I believe that any money not invested will depreciate with inflation. There was a time I formed an investment club and promised to give people some interest on their money if they save them with me. A lot of people kept their money with me and I invested them in T-Bills. I made some profits and still return their money with some interests. So, it was a win-win situation.  What are the attractions now that interests are low? I was discouraged at first when the interest on T-Bills was reduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria. It came to about 1 per cent at a time. What I do now is that I invest for longer tenor like 364 days. It is still better than just leaving my money in my bank accounts.  What do you say to those who don’t see reason(s) to invest in Treasury Bills? T-Bills to me is one of the elementary forms of investing. The risk in it is minimal that is why it is called fixed income securities. You will know your interests at the point of investing. Your returns on investment is guaranteed. Your yield(interest) on the T-Bills investment is redeemable upfront, you can decide to automatically reinvest it for a higher income. The yield or Income on the investment is very competitive with returns on other money market instruments of similar maturities. The securities have zero-default risk. The yield on investment is tax-free. The securities can be used as collateral for short-term borrowing from banks.  The Treasury Bill can be traded on the stock exchange.    