Some National Assembly members including Senators Ali Ndume, Abba Moro and House Leader, Hon Alhassan Doduwa, were at the weekend honoured by the Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN) for their role in ensuring peace and stability in the country. The award ceremony was part of the activities lined up to mark the 23rd anniversary/founder’s day celebration of the Peace Corps of Nigeria in Abuja. In his anniversary speech, the national commandant, PCN, Prof Dickson Akoh, said the PCN has weathered the storm in its quest to realise a Nigeria that is in peace and crime free. Akoh said, the country today, just like any other part of the world, is passing through unprecedented health challenges occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic, and that the worst of it is the overwhelming security challenges of a troubling scale. He said the PCN envisions a Nigeria where all young people are inspired and equipped to realise their ambition. This, it intends to achieve by connecting young people with opportunities to transform their lives and create a better and peaceful society for all. “This is anchored on the core mandate of the Peace Corps, which is to develop; empower and provide gainful employment for the youths; to facilitate peace, volunteerism, community services; neighbourhood watch and nation-building. “Thus, the ideals behind the coming into being of the corps shows our unwavering commitment to peace building, youth re-orientation and empowerment,” Akoh stated. Chairman of the occasion, former head of state, General Yakubu Gowon, represented by the former military governor of Old Bauchi State, Major General Chris Garba (rtd), hailed the choice of the theme: “Rejigging The Security Architecture: Imperative For A Second Line Of Public Safety: The Nigerian Peace Corps perspectives”, and urged the youths not to do anything that will take the country backward. Gowon said that in the past 23 years, the PCN has done well in spite of the daunting challenges it has faced. Guest speaker at the occasion, Prof Isaac Olawale Albert of the African History, Peace and Conflict Studies, Department of Peace, Security and Humanitarian Studies, University of Ibadan, who delivered a lecture on the theme of the celebration, said the records of the PCN over a period of 23 years suggests that it has a lot to contribute to Nigeria’s movement in the direction of non-coercive problem solving. “It has been working peacefully with Nigerian youth for about 23 years and has the experiences that could help the nation. “Hence it should be added to the list of security agencies in the country with its mandate being that of using non-coercive strategies for transforming all categories of Nigerian youths on a long term basis,” Albert said.