Crystal Palace have appointed Arsenal legend Patrick Vieira as their new manager on a three-year contract. Palace confirmed Vieira’s appointment on their official website on Sunday. The 45-year-old replaces Roy Hodgson who stepped down from his position as the London club’s manager after the end of last season. This will be Vieira’s third club as a manager after previously handling New York City FC and Nice. “Crystal Palace Football Club are delighted to confirm the appointment of Patrick Vieira as its new manager for the next three seasons,” Palace statement read. Considered one of the best players of his generation, Vieira played an integral part in Arsenal’s domestic success between 1997 and 2005 under Arsene Wenger, winning three Premier League titles and four F.A. Cups. He represented the north London club 396 times, and was named in the Premier League PFA Team of the Year for six consecutive years. “After leaving Arsenal, the midfielder went on to spend a season at Juventus, before securing more silverware at Inter Milan (three Serie A titles and two Supercoppa Italiana cup triumphs) and Manchester City (one F.A. Cup win) where he brought to a close a remarkable playing career in 2011. “On the international stage, Vieira made more than 100 appearances for France over a 12-year period, which included several spells as captain, winning the FIFA World Cup in 1998 and UEFA European Championship in 2000. “Having hung up his boots, Vieira began his transition into coaching at Manchester City’s Academy, embarking on a four-year apprenticeship in management that included a spell managing the club’s Elite Development Squad. He departed City for the States and the 2016 Major League Soccer season, taking up the managerial position at New York City F.C, who had finished 17th the season prior. He led them to second place in the Eastern Conference in his first season, with the side finishing fourth place overall. The next season, another second place position in the Eastern Conference was secured, and Vieira’s side ended overall league runners-up. “Vieira subsequently returned to France to manage Ligue 1 club Nice in 2018, securing a seventh place finish in his first season – one place higher than their previous campaign. In 2019/20, Vieira’s side placed fifth in a curtailed season, securing a Europa League spot in the process.” 