Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has advised his commissioners, special advisers and other political appointees, to resign if they are not able to meet up with the speed of his administration in delivery of programmes and policies. Wike gave the advice on Saturday while speaking at the flag-off of a construction work at the Port Harcourt campus of the Nigeria Law School, located at the former Rivers State School of Nursing, Rumueme, Port Harcourt. The governor stated that the commitment of his special adviser on Special Duties, George Kelly, on the policies and programmes of his administration was commendable and advised other appointees to see that as a challenge. He said: “If you can’t meet up with my speed, if you can’t meet up with my way, then, all you should do is to put in your voluntary resignation. “This young man (George Kelly) has been committed to his duties. He has repeatedly been passionate about the job given to him. My likeness for you is about your commitment and your ability to get results. I don’t know anything about failure, what I know is to succeed. “People are saying that I am giving him job a lot; you, do well, more jobs will be given to you. Special Adviser on Special Projects, let me commend you for a job well done. “That is a challenge to all others. Nobody is a special one to me; all of you are special. When I see a commitment and passion you have, then, you become a special one.” Wike restated the commitment of his administration towards the completion of the campus before eight months and appealed for the approval of the Council for Legal Education, for the campus to be named after former Attorney-General of the Federation, late Dr. Nabo Graham-Douglas. In his speech, chairman of Council for Legal Education, Chief Nnaemeka Ngige (SAN), said based on an agreement between the Council and the Rivers State government, the Wike-led administration will provide a monthly subvention of N10m with a guaranteed payment for four years. Ngige, who described the Port Harcourt campus of the Nigeria Law School as ‘Rivers Model’, said any state government or group that wants to build a campus in any location, must comply with the model.