The minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi has expressed great satisfaction with the level of progress recorded on the construction of the Lekki Deep Sea Port project. Amaechi revealed this yesterday during an inspection visit to the port by the Federal Ministry of Transportation and other government agencies including the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the Nigeria Shippers’ Council (NSC) and the Nigerian Maritime Administrative and Safety Agency (NIMASA). He said, “I am very delighted and impressed with the pace and the progress of construction work on this project from the last time I was here in November 2020. The promoter of the project-Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited has demonstrated strong commitment and capacity to deliver the project as agreed.”
The minister further urged the management of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited and other stakeholders to work tirelessly to ensure that the Port becomes operational by mid-2022. While briefing the minister and his entourage on the status of construction of the port, the chairman, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited, Mr Abiodun Dabiri disclosed that the entire port construction is now at 55.48% completion. Giving a further breakdown of the status of the components of the port, Dabiri noted that dredging and reclamation has reached 61,11%, quay wall 50.39%, breakwater 67.49% while the landside infrastructure development has reached 33.70% completion. The chairman expressed profound appreciation of the company to the Minister and his team for providing the necessary support that has assisted the company to deliver on the mandate for the project. Also speaking during the visit, the acting managing director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Mr Mohammed Bello-Koko assured that the Nigerian Port Authority is ready to play its part to ensure smooth take off of port operations upon completion of construction. He disclosed that NPA has commenced the process of acquiring all necessary marine equipment including tug boats and mooring boats. The delegation that accompanied the minister on the inspection visit included the permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMoT), Dr. Magdalene Ajani, executive secretary, Nigeria Shipper’s Council, Mr Emmanuel Jime and the director general of the Nigerian Maritime Administrative and Safety Agency, Dr Bashir Jamoh.