The Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has received the report of the Ogun State Judicial Panel of Investigation on police brutality and extra-judicial killings with an assurance to implement the recommendations towards having a peaceful society that will engender more robust relationship between the people and security agencies. Governor Abiodun, who gave the assurance on Friday at the Executive Council Chamber, Oke Mosan, Abeokuta while receiving the report, appreciated the panel members for their selfless efforts and contributions towards the successful completion of the task. “I believe that the implementation of this report will end the gory experience often encountered by residents of the State,” the governor assured. The governor added that it was important for all as a people and security agencies to ensure and foster a continued and mutually beneficial relationship. Governor Abiodun appreciated the youths, security agencies, media, religious and community leaders, market men and women and other people of goodwill for their contributions to the development of the State. Earlier in his address, chairman of the panel, Justice Solomon Olugbemi, disclosed that the panel after its findings recommended a total payment of over N218m as compensation for 42 victims or families of victims of brutality and violation of human rights by police and other security personnel in Ogun State. Justice Olugbemi added that the panel also made recommendations for the investigation, discipline and where appropriate, prosecution of certain personnel to serve as deterrence and in the interest of justice. The panel chairman revealed that the panel received a total of 106 petitions, out of which 58 were treated and the remaining 48 were either withdrawn, rejected or abandoned wholly or half-way by the petitioners. According to the chairman, “the 289 page report captured the testimonies and evidences of gory details of torture, unjustifiable shootings, inhumane treatment and other forms of human rights abuses leading to brain damage, spinal cord injuries, permanent disability, death, loss of means of livelihood, unlawful seizure of personal properties and various forms of atrocities.” He disclosed that most of the Police officers that the panel came across were found to be grossly deficient in knowledge and professional training required for efficiency in the Police Force, urging government to put machinery in place to address the situation.