There is some kind of confusion between the Contributory Pension Scheme and the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme, so much that some civil servants don’t seem to know the difference between the two. Can you shed light on them? The Defined Pension Scheme is actually the old pension system, while the Contributory Pension Scheme is the new one. The difference between the two is that the Defined Pension Scheme is a pension plan in which the total pension obligation is borne by the employer, either the state or federal government. The employer promises to give the employee some benefits after specific years of service, either after putting in 35 years or when he or she reaches the retirement age of 60 years. This benefit is only due to a person whose appointment is pensionable; minimum of 10 years and maximum of 35 years in service. For the deceased, he is entitled to Death Benefit, gratuity and five years accrued pension if he hasn’t started collecting monthly pension at the time of death. However, if someone on this scheme has commenced pension of say two years before he dies, the remaining years will be calculated as part of the Death Benefits, which will be given to his Next-of-Kin to complete the mandatory five years of pension payment as provided by Section 11 of Pension Act, 2004. As the name implies, the Contributory Pension Scheme entails that the employee and the employer are involved, and bear the risk. Both contribute certain percentages. In Kaduna state, with the amendment to that law in 2020, it is now 7% monthly contribution from the employee and 8% from the state government, making the total percentage contribution 15%. Every employee in the new scheme is expected to have a Retirement Savings Account (RSA), more like a bank account, into which those contributions are remitted. You must have put in 35 years of service or attained the age of 50 years before accessing the pension. For instance, upon retirement in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment, the retiree may withdraw a lump sum of money, of not more than 25% of the amount standing to the credit of his Retirement Saving Account (RSA), provided such withdrawals shall only be made after two months of such retirement, and the retired employee has not secured another employment  Civil servants were given a lump sum called gratuity before they begin receiving pension in the old scheme. Is it also the same with Contributory Pension Scheme? Well, it is not the same; in Contributory Pension Scheme, the total contribution is what is due to you, plus return on investment. In the old scheme, a retiree is entitled to gratuity and pension at the point of retirement, which is sponsored by the employer using a certain predetermined payment formula, based on employees’ earnings history, tenure of service, age, etc., rather than on individual investment returns. The employer contributes to a pool of funds to cover benefits for all participants. While in Contributory Pension Scheme, upon retirement, an employee can draw a lump sum from the balance standing to the credit of his RSA, provided the balance could procure an annuity or fund monthly pension payment as at the date of his retirement. However, an employer may choose to pay any other severance benefits (by whatever name) over and above the retirement benefits payable to the employee subject to the terms and conditions of his employment. The total contribution made by both employee and employer may be more, because it is expected that the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) will invest the money to generate gains before the beneficiaries retire. Government does not make any payment again at the point of employee retirement, once it has contributed its percentage share into the individual’s RSA. In the old Defined Benefits Scheme, pension is for life. Is it the same in Contributory Pension Scheme? Yes, but this depends on the arrangement that a civil servant has with his PFA. In Contributory Pension Scheme, there are two benefits, namely periodic monthly or quarterly pension, and the one-off lump sum payments. In the periodic payment, we also have Programmed Withdrawal and Life Annuity. In the Programmed Withdrawal, the retiree collects his retirement benefits monthly or quarterly throughout the length of the estimated lifespan. Life Annuity is a series of monthly or quarterly payments paid to the retiree for life by an insurance. Under this scheme, PFAs give retirees their entire savings which the beneficiaries transfer to the insurance companies of their choice. These insurance companies then place them on pension. The PFAs have different Withdrawal Plans, and sometimes these plans are based on a retiree’s age and the percentage share of defined lump sum. For instance, if someone retires at 50 years, probably he has about 25 to 30 years to live, the lump sum is 25%, then 75% of the total benefit will be spread across the expected lifespan of 25 to 30 years on a monthly or quarterly basis. Sometimes, if the benefit is a small amount, a retiree may not even have a lump sum, and the monthly pension may be peanuts if spread across the period of years, let’s say a lifetime. The National Pension Commission has accused several states of not remitting pension funds to PFAs. Is Kaduna state making these remittances as and when due? Kaduna state has consistently been making its remittances. However, we observed that we still have people in the public service that have not registered or opened a Retirement Savings Accounts. To this end, we have not been able to credit their account or transfer their contributions from Transitional Contributory Fund (TCF) to their various PFAs. Once the PFAs are identified, the Pension Bureau will remit or transfer all the monies that have been deducted from these individuals’ salaries as their pension contributions. So, we are up to date in remittances to all PFAs. Some civil servants that left service in 2017 have not gotten their pensions. Can you clarify this situation, given what you said that Kaduna state has been making prompt remittances? The Contributory Pension Scheme started even before 2016 when it was made compulsory. So, between 2008 and 2016, pension deductions were deposited into an account but not remitted directly to Retirement Savings Accounts. There was a mop-up and an actuarial valuation of how much was deducted from individual civil servants as contributions at both state and local government levels, when this administration came in. The total amount of these deductions is what we referred to as Past- Service Benefit or Accrued Rights. So, anybody that retired in December 2016 is actually in the old pension scheme, but anyone that has crossed over to January 2017 is supposed to be in the new pension scheme, which is mandatory for every public servant. So, the contribution that an individual made from 2008 to 2016, if he has crossed over to 2017, is what we call Accrued Rights or Past Service Benefit, which the state government must pay at the point of retirement and the amount is added to what he has contributed, from 2017 to date, as total benefit. So, when people retire, we use the principle of “First in-First out” or ‘’First to retire, First to be paid’’ to make payment. If you retired in 2017, you are in a queue; when you retired in 2018, 2019, up to date, you also join the queue. So, in making payments, we usually consider those in the queue first, which is those from 2017. Kaduna State Government has established a Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Account in the Central Bank of Nigeria. The employer groups of the Public Service of the state are already making monthly payments into the Fund of an amount equal to 5% of the total monthly wage bill. Once this amount is received, we make payment to retirees through their various PFAs. The aggregate of 5% of the total monthly wage bill that we get is usually less than the total number and amount of requests put forward by PFAs. So, we have to consider the number that the money we were given will cover. So far, we have exhausted 2017 and 2018 with some PFAs, while in others, we are still on the 2017 list. But we are doing our best to finish with most people on the 2017 list. By the time we are able to cover the entire retirees of 2017 with all the PFAs, the complaints will reduce. But for now, I will honestly say that we have a considerable number of requests on queue, and looking at the state’s resources, we can only cover the list of retirees, batches by batches. Hopefully, everyone on that queue will be paid with time. How much did this administration inherit as pension liabilities when it came to office in 2015 because there have been some conflicting figures in recent times? I remembered that early last month or so, when the former governor of Kaduna state, Alhaji Mukhtar Ramalan Yero, claimed that he left an estimated amount of N8 or N9 billion-plus, but the current administration said it was N15 billion. In the real sense, when the Transition Committee came on board immediately after the election in 2015, what it received was a paper value on liabilities. That is the figure that the former governor had used to make a claim. But a lot of gaps were discovered in the paper value. For example, no breakdown was given as to what each PFA owed in terms of outstanding, the total contribution of civil servants as employers, as well as contributions from the state government as employers that were supposed to have been remitted in each of the RSAs, were not remitted. For example, Premium Pensions had 21,686 funded accounts, and the amount received was N8.4 billion with an outstanding amount of N399,013,364.40. The outstanding was for October to December 2014 only. Sigma Pension received N4,374,614,502.14 as remittances but had an outstanding liability of N1,089,957,864.97 and N395,903,778.09 as outstanding for January 2015. Leadway Pensure had 35,637 RSAs and received N2,558,681,780.56 remittances but had an outstanding of liability of N6, 466,385,935.51 (N 449,674,093.13 of employees’ deduction and N6,016,711,819.38 of employer (LG remittances). So, these figures were not mentioned in the liabilities that the former governor claimed to have left behind. We also had some employees that what was deducted from them as contributions were not captured by the former governor and what the government was supposed to have remitted too. These missing gaps were what necessitated the setting up of a committee to investigate the total amount of liabilities in the state. The report of the committee brought to light, the N15 billion plus as inherited liability. The committee presented its report to the State Executive Council, and more insight on the total outstanding liabilities on retirement and Death Benefits for state and local government retirees and deceased staff as of November 2016 were provided, stating the amount as Fifteen billion Five Hundred and Seventy[1]Five million, Three Hundred and Ninety-Two thousand, One Hundred and Fifty-Two Naira, Forty-One Naira (N15,575,392,152.14). On the whole, we have paid over N13 billion out of the N15 billion Defined Benefit Scheme liabilities that we inherited from the last administration, and over N13 billion of the current Contributory Pension Scheme.