Tangerine is planning to have a presence in at least eight African countries by the year 2024. Similarly, Tangerine Nigeria has repositioned its operation to deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria with the deployment of tech-driven solutions. Speaking to journalists in Lagos at the launch of its financial service product offerings, head pensions, Tangerine Nigeria, Dapo Akisanya said: “Under two years, we have been able to successfully acquire and rebrand several businesses, firmly establishing Tangerine. “We have also made significant strides in repositioning our businesses in readiness for growth by assembling a strong, agile and experienced team that aligns with our strategic thinking.” Akinsanya added, “At Tangerine, we believe in democratising access to financial services and products and we seek to achieve this by developing simple value-adding products that are easy to understand and, which leverage technology to increase ease of accessibility, helping millions of uninsured Nigerians have protection or save for the future.” On the company’s strategic plan for the future, head, Life Insurance of Tangerine Nigeria, Livingstone Magorimbo explained: “Our intention over the next three to four years is to build strong businesses that are profitable and have a fair share of the larger market in all of the segments we participate in. “We aim to do this by ensuring that the assets acquired in Nigeria are efficient and all the merger synergies are fully realised. In addition, we plan to generate value through customer acquisition, expansion of our agent network, cross-selling to our pool of customers and improving efficiencies.” Magorimbo further said: “We see our future growth coming from the retail segment where we have made significant investments in understanding the market need, and in the technology and people required to support us going forward. We are also set to expand Tangerine’s presence beyond Nigeria. We plan to have a presence in at least eight African countries by 2024”.  Tangerine Life, ARM Life Merge  To Build Stronger Insurance Brand(Opens in a new browser tab)