Misinformation and conspiracy theories towards discouraging the public from getting vaccinated against COVID-19 have continued to spread rampantly on social media platforms. The social media was recently awash with videos of people claiming that the vaccine had created magnetic field around vaccination site and that it was causing their body to light up an electric bulb. The National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) has come out to say that the claim was untrue. Executive director of the NPHCDA, Dr Faisal Shuaib, says the anti-vaccination elements have come up with magnetic conspiracy deceiving people with videos, that COVID-19 vaccine creates magnetic field around vaccination site and can cause the body to light up an electric bulb. Shuaib says although the people who are manufacturing conspiracy theories about COVID-19 are in the minority, the virulence of social media increases their reach. The ED, who spoke in Abuja points out   “Today I would like to make very clear and demonstrate publicly that COVID-19 vaccine does not create any magnetic effect around the vaccination site or any part of the body for that matter, neither does it cause the body to light up an electric bulb. Stating that it’s a common fact that people with wet, moist or sticky skin can have objects stuck to their skin especially in smooth areas. Strong friction also allows for objects to stick to the skin. And the fact that COVID -19 vaccines does not contain any metal.So, how can it generate magnetic field or light an electric bulb? A health worker in Abuja, Jonathan Jane who just collected her second dose of the Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, told me that her husband was getting really worried for her after watching some of the videos of spoons, phones and other metals magneting people’s skin, but says she was very sure that the claims were not true. A journalist craving anonymity, who has also received his second dose of the vaccine said initially, he was getting scared after watching one of the videos but that he became relieved after he tried placing metal objects around his vaccination spot and there was no magnet. Meanwhile, 2,495,632 people have been vaccinated with the first dose, while 1,370,130 have received their second dose of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in the country, said Shuaib. “Overall, Nigeria has successfully utilised 3.9million doses, representing 96 per cent of the 4,024,000 doses of the vaccines received in the country. Nigeria is poised to achieve 100 per cent utilisation of the doses of vaccine it has received in the next few days. “This is to ensure that people are protected against COVID-19, and normalcy is restored,” he explained.  COVID-19: Claim Of Magnetic Field Around Vaccination Site Untrue – NPHCDA(Opens in a new browser tab)