Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, on Thursday dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and joined the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying there was the need for the state to belong to the centre. The governor, formally declared for the ruling party at the Cross River State Executive Council Chamber, Governor’s Office in Calabar after a two-hour meeting with seven APC governors led by the party’s interim chairman and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. While giving reason on his decision to move to the  ruling  APC, the Cross River state governor said realisation that Cross River, which has been emasculated economically following the ceding of its oil wells, needed to be in sync with the party at the center. He also attributed his move to the sterling attributes of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Having seen and known the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and his commitment to this country, his nationalistic disposition and all the efforts he has made to bring Nigeria to where we are today, it is obvious that at this point, we needed to join hands with him to build a Nigeria that we can be proud of. “We need all governors to recognise that it is not party that matters. It is character, it is honour, it is commitment to the vision of this great nation. We all need to know as a team work ahead of the president by working towards building a prosperous country that the succession worries of 2023 will come without the fears and the worries the international community has for us.  READ ALSO: #ENDSARS: Ayade Stops Tuition In State Varsity, Orders 20,000 Employments(Opens in a new browser tab)  “I believe that if everyone of us as governor join hands with Mr President, I think we can sit on the same dining table and fashion out a way to govern this country,” Ayade stated. In his remarks, the APC national caretaker chairman, Governor Buni, stated that he alongaide his team memers was in the state to formally welcome Governor Ayade to the APC. “I am here on behalf of the APC family to welcome His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Cross River State formally to the APC. As from today he is the leader of the party in the state,” Buni declared. Other APC governors, who witnessed the event, included Hope Uzodinma of Imo State, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Solomon Lalong of Plateau State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State, including the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva. On the side of the Cross River government were the deputy governor, Prof. Ivara Esu; Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Eteng Williams Jones; members of the State House of Assembly; some memebers of National Assembly from the state; members of the Cross River State Executive Council; local government chairmen, councilors and some stakeholders, including Dame Princess Florence Ita-Giwa and High Chief Asuquo Ekpenyong, amongst others. RELATED: Gov Ayade Defects To APC