President Muhammadu Buhari has said that addressing Nigeria’s security challenges requires joint efforts of all Nigerians. President Buhari said this at the opening of a four-day special summit on national security organised by the House of Representatives in Abuja on Wednesday. The president commended the House for creating the forum to allow stakeholders brainstorm on issues affecting the country and the way forward. President Buhari, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, said security had become a major concern at global, regional and national levels.
“Nigeria shares land borders with Benin, Cameroon, Chad and Niger; and maritime boundaries with Equatorial Guanine, Ghana, Sao Tome and Principe.
“The challenges these borders pose to our national security and interest are enormous; the instability and conflict in the Chad basin alone deserves close attention. “Our nation has to grapple with various forms of internal security issues over the past decade in all geo- political zones.
“Addressing them effectively to restore peace and security remains the responsibility of all Nigerians in and out of public office and our democratic institutions,’’ he said. The president said the summit was timely, as the country was mourning the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and other gallant officers who died in a plane crash.
He said their death was a painful loss to the nation, the military and the efforts towards combating security challenges in the country. In his remark, the senate president, Ahmed Lawan, said Nigeria was at a crossroad adding that the very essence of the existence of the country was under threat. He said that the Legislature and the Executive must come together to salvage the situation appealing to the Executive to implement the outcome of the summit. The senate president, who pledged the support of the parliament for security agencies, stressed the need to review the procurement process in the military.