Minister of Agriculture, Alhaji Mohammed Nanono, has promised federal government’s intervention in Abi/Yakurr federal constituency of Cross Rivet State in the execution of projects to boost agriculture revolution in the area. The commitment came after the member representing the Abi/Yakurr federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Dr Alex Egbona, paid a courtesy call on the minister on Wednesday. The minister said it was gratifying to know of the agricultural potentials of the federal constituency and noted the readiness of his ministry to support farmers in the constituency. He described Egbona as a worthy ally who had shown so much commitment to the well-being of his people. He said apart from Egbona being a committed APC chieftain from Cross River, his ministry was willing to promote initiatives that would boost food production in the country. Earlier, Egbona presented a list of requests to the minister for the intervention of the minister, including the request for the construction of feeder roads in the constituency to enable farmers transport their yields to the markets. Egbona was quoted to have said, ” the good people of Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency of Cross River State sent me to commend you for the good works you are doing for our country. They are appreciative of the efforts of Mr President in transforming the rural communities and boosting the agricultural endeavours of rural farmers through the various programmes and policies you have initiated. “Overtime, we have preached the gospel of a deliberate shift from dependence on oil to agriculture. Fortunately, my people had long appreciated the need for this shift and have been largely dependent on agriculture. We are largely an agrarian people with vast hectares of land for the cultivation of all kinds of crops. “But they have myriad of challenges and I believe that this Ministry can intervene and enhance a seamless agricultural activities.I have therefore come to you with some requests for your kind action and approval, for the interest of my people. Among the things he requested are the construction and equipping of Skills Acquisition Centre for Aquatic farming, agricultural training and empowerment of Youths and Women Constituency. Others are the supply of mobile fish pond and feed to rural farmers in selected communities, rice mills with storing facilities to promote Nigeria rice value chain, training and Empowerment of Youths and Women in Agric Rice production and supply Of Rice Seed and fertilizer. They also requested for the construction of feeder roads in the constituency to enhance movement of farm produce to the markets. Others are the assistance to cooperative farmers in the areas of crops, pesticides, seedlings, farm implements, fertilizers, etc, agro processing, productivities enhancement and livelihood improvement support as well as the promotion development of yam, Cassava, Melon, Maize, Rice and melon value chains. “Abi/Yakurr people are proud farmers. With your support, they can this feed this nation in the years to come. “If it pleases you sir, you may wish to undertake a tour of my constituency to see things for yourself. My people will be very glad to receive and show you around.”