BY IGHO OYOYO A humanitarian organisation based in the United States of America, under the auspices of Achana Legacy Foundation, has donated biomedical equipment worth millions of naira to boost primary healthcare centres in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. Some of the items donated include Electric, Hill-Rom, Advanta worth $2,800.00, CV Arts, CV Split, CSR Wrap worth $900.00, Dharma Relief Face Masks with Earloops worth $1,080.00, Monitor worth $2,594.00, Vacuum Regulator worth $1,074.95, Syringes, 50cc, Catheter Tip worth $4,400.00, Pressure Tubing, assorted worth $3,200.00, and Blanket Warming Cabinet Single Chamber worth $1,939.00. Others include Stryker, Secure 2, w/mattress worth $3,136.40, ECG Monitor, w/stand worth $3,088.86, Hemorrhoid worth $2,669.80, IV Line Connectors, Needless Luer Access Device worth $1,196.16, N95 Cone-Type Respirator worth $1,200.00, Video Camera Console SK worth $3,995.00, Eletrosurgical Generator worth $3,462.00 amongst other assorted non-pharmaceutical items. In a statement signed by media adviser to FCT Minister of State, Austine Elemue, while receiving the items on behalf of the FCT Administration, Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, expressed gratitude to the Foundation for responding to the clarion call by the Administration for the development of primary healthcare centres in the nation’s capital. The minister revealed that at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Administration reached out to well-meaning Nigerians in diaspora to come to its aid by equipping primary healthcare centres in rural communities. Aliyu, however, noted that the biomedical equipment donated by the Foundation would not only save the administration of huge sums of money, but would also go a long way in boosting primary healthcare delivery in the FCT. While calling on other Nigerians to be patriotic as demonstrated by Achana Legacy Foundation, the minister maintained that good governance is a collective responsibility. “The FCT for a long time has been yearning for such support from Nigerians in the diaspora. We thank the foundation for coming to our aid by donating three (3) 40ft. containers filled with biomedical equipment to the Federal Capital Territory. “There is much more we can all do to make Nigeria better than clamoring for sessasion. If all Nigerians can contribute their quarters, only then we will come to the realization that nation building is not the responsibility of government alone. This donation will no doubt boost primary healthcare in the FCT,” she said. Presenting the equipment to the minister, a representative of the Foundation, Mr. Mustapha Salihu, revealed that the NGO has carried out numerous humanitarian services across African countries particularly in Nigeria. He also revealed that the Foundation had donated medical equipment to states like Bauchi, Kwara and Kogi with a view to cushioning the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, stressing that the donation would be replicated in other states of the federation. According to him, “we stand on the philosophy that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation and before we can attain wealth we have to attain wellness as a people. More importantly, we have to join hands with government seeing that we are going through a pandemic.” Earlier in his remarks, the acting Executive Secretary of FCT Primary Healthcare Board, Dr. Iwot Ndaeyo, described the gesture as the highest single donation to boost FCT Primary Healthcare Centres in the past 30 years, while pledging to put the items to good use.