Lagos State government yesterday said it paid N269, 697,458.75 to families of deceased staff of Local Governments and State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) as insurance packages. The state’s commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Dr Wale Ahmed, disclosed this at this year’s ministerial press briefing to mark the second year of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration in office, held at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre, Alausa, Lagos. Ahmed disclosed that the money was paid to families of 160 deceased staff of LGs/LCDAs and SUBEB. “In the year under review, the ministry ensured the release of claims to one hundred and sixty (160) beneficiaries of deceased employees of SUBEB and LGAs/LCDAs, amounting to N269,697,458.75 by LASACO Assurance PLC,” he said. The commissioner also said a total of 154 Marital Documents were released to LGAs/LCDAs, with 21 Special License Approvals, two Church License Approvals and two Renewal of Approvals. He added that through the Local Government Administration Department, the Ministry was able to initiate and coordinate the flag-off of the 377 state-wide projects by the administration of Sanwo-Olu. Ahmed stated that the project covered 257 roads, 86 buildings, 23 electrification, nine boreholes and two jetties to link communities across the state, thereby making communities accessible and as a result, engendered socio-economic activities at the grassroots. “As part of its responsibilities in ensuring adherence to guidelines on administrative procedures, the Ministry embarked on a strategic tour of LGAs/LCDAs. As of today, the Ministry has visited all 57 LGAs/LCDAs.” he said. He further said through local government administration department, the ministry witnessed the inauguration of a 21-man Market Advisory Council by Sanwo-Olu, saying that the inauguration was borne out of the governor’s desire to make Lagos State a 21st Century Economy and to strategically position the markets in a way that it profits the state and sets it ready for the economic growth it would witness in the years ahead. In the days ahead, Ahmed disclosed that the ministry would be expanding its rural development efforts to other communities with the construction of Oba Oyediran Road in Badagry; Ramon Owoyemi Street in Egbeda; construction of Community Hall in Ikorodu, construction of dilapidated Community Hall in Toga- Badagry; construction, equipping and furnishing of Information Viewing and Community Centre in Otunla Community, Ibeju-Lekki.