May 27 of every year is set aside to celebrate the Nigerian Child. The event serves to raise awareness on issues that affect the child and enables the society to appreciate the often forgotten reality that children are, indeed, the future. As the nation marks the event today, it important to call to mind the plight of Nigerian children, the challenges they face and how helpless the society has become in response to this and their seeming inability to create the right environment they need to be the children they truly are. Sadly, in our view, the Nigerian child is today mercilessly abused at home and outside the home. They have become targets of criminals who sexually abuse them, abduct them for rituals and kidnap them for ransom. In all these harrowing occasions, the impression is created that they don’t matter especially if they are from poor families. Since the abduction of school girls from Chibok in Borno State in 2014 as well as the Dapchi and Buni Yadi episodes, these horrendous acts have continued to be a constant reminder that the Nigerian child, especially those in schools, have become easy targets for insurgents and bandits. In the last one year, those criminals from the pit of hell have attacked and abducted not less than 600 students across the country. We recall that in the wee hours of 11 December 2020, over 300 pupils were kidnapped from Government Science boys’ secondary boarding school in Kankara, Katsina State. The students have since been released. But the experience has continued to haunt them and their parents. On 17 February 2021, a school pupil was killed and 27 others were abducted by armed from their school in Kagara, Niger State. The Zamfara kidnapping was the abduction of 279 female students during a raid by armed bandits on 26 February 2021. All girls were, eventually, released. There is no gainsaying that the Nigerian child has not gotten a fair deal from the government in recent years. The issue of child labour has remained one that, though regularly discussed at seminars and workshops, yet not much action has been taken to bring to an end this habit that is becoming a scourge on the psyche of the child who is denied the opportunity to have a normal development devoid of ill-treatment that debilitates not just physically but emotionally. It is also pertinent to note that eleven out of the 36 states in Nigeria are yet to domesticate the Child Rights Act passed in 2003. The 11 states that are yet to domesticate the Act include Kebbi, Kano, Katsina, Sokoto, Jigawa, Zamfara, Bauchi, Yobe, Gombe, Borno and Adamawa. According to a UNICEF report, Nigeria has the highest number of child marriages in Africa, with 23 million girls and women married in childhood. Similarly, we recall that Nigeria adopted the Child’s Rights Act in 2003 which gives legal consent to both the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. However, a survey conducted by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) had indicated that the population of out-of-school children in Nigeria had risen from 10.5 million to 13.2 million, the highest in the world. Statistics also show that only 61 percent of children within the six-to-11-years age bracket regularly attend primary school. Experts point out that the number of out-of-school children in Nigeria is more than the population of Norway, Singapore and Cuba put together. This is shameful and must not be allowed to continue. In a country bedevilled by insurgency in the north east and banditry in the North West and north central, the huge army of out-of-school children will be a ready reservoir for insurgents and bandits to recruit from. In the face of this daunting challenge, it is gratifying to note that President Muhammadu Buhari had, in February, inaugurated an 18-member Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme (ASP). The ASP is an innovative and flexible approach to learning and skills development which ensures that education is designed to specifically address the needs of the target beneficiaries and is delivered conveniently, without unnecessary encumbrances. By targeting out-of-school children, the programme will ensure that more children are equipped with basic literacy skills, reasoning capabilities, and technical and vocational expertise that will enable them to live fulfilled lives. We commend this child-targeted policy just as we call on the federal government to take the safety of the Nigerian child more seriously. Schools must be protected from insurgents and bandits. Similarly, we urge the states that are yet to domesticate the Child’s Rights Act to do so urgently. The future of the Nigerian Child is at stake and all efforts must be made to safeguard it because invariably, it means the future of humanity in this part of the globe. This newspaper wishes the Nigerian Child a happy celebration.