Recent discussions on open cattle grazing assumed a fresh dimension when Southern governors met in Asaba, the Delta State capital, and made far reaching resolutions on the state of the nation. Besides another contentious issue as restructuring, the governors declared a ban on open grazing. They advocated the ranching system which has been argued to be modern and efficient, in place of open grazing which had become very contentious. Their position attracted criticisms from some northern personalities. Organisations like Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Kulen Allah Cattle Rearers Association of Nigeria (KACRAN) and Miyyeti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) opposed the ban. While elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai says the ban is not necessarily binding on the federal government, former Senate majority leader, Mohammed Ali Ndume; former executive secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof. Usman Yusuf also knocked down the ban. Their criticisms came in spite of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Northern Nigeria Governor’s Forum and Arewa Consultative Forum’s endorsement of the ranching system. Also, Southern federal and state lawmakers also backed the resolve of the governors on ranching as against open grazing. RELATED: ACF Backs Southern Govs, Restates Support For Open Grazing Ban As the back and forth over the matter rages, the question on the minds of Nigerians is ‘what is next’? In a chat with a former presidential adviser to ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, Chief Olukayode Akindele, an executive order, banning open grazing is long overdue. He stressed that the issue must be addressed head long with the least of sentiments. “This is not just a matter of rearing cattle alone. It involves health, safety and security, industrial and economic growth and development. There is also a constitutional and social coexistence amongst other national pertinent issues. “We must address it head long patriotically with least sentiments. An executive order banning open grazing is overdue (even if the total banning will be progressive). Each state must be free to implement its own order/law.” He noted that during the transition period, foreign herdsmen must be banned, with mandatory compensation to farmers whose land and crops were destroyed (as a federal government initiative). Similarly, the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) Akwa Ibom State Chapter, has advised that each Southern governor should back the resolutions they just made with the law in their respective states. Chairman of CLO in the state, Franklyn Isong and secretary, Christopher Ekpo, called on the respective governors to initiate bills to their state Houses of Assembly without delay. “We commend the courage of 17 governors of the Southern states of Nigeria and urge the governors of the respective states to follow up this decision by forwarding Bills to their respective Houses of Assembly to that effect,” they said.