Criticisms yesterday trailed the destruction of the home of the paramount ruler of Twon Brass Kingdom, King Alfred Diette-Spiff, by youths protesting an alleged shooting of a 24-year-old man by military officers during a peaceful protest in Brass local government area. The people of Brass were protesting against the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) over a prolonged power outage, refusal to pay indigenous contractors and non-compliance with its corporate social responsibility in its host communities. King Alfred Diette-Spiff who is the chairman of the Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers Council was the first military governor of the old Rivers State. The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), Brass clan; the member representing Brass Constituency 1 at the State House of Assembly, Hon Daniel Charles and the founder of a political group in Brass known as the New Face, Robert Desmond, all condemned the unwarranted attack on the home of the Traditional rulers. The IYC, Brass clan, led its chairman, Comrade Hello Richard and clan representative, Comrade Benjamin Tuaton, described the attack on the royal palace as “condemnable. IYC said, “From our findings, we gathered that the shooting took place when some persons hijacked the protest, and instigated the attack on the palace of the Amayanabo of Twon Brass, HRM Alfred Diete-Spiff. As the apex body representing all Ijaw youths in the clan, we condemn in strong terms the brazen disrespect on the King of Twon Brass. We will not condone an attack on his person from anybody, be it an Ijaw person or foreigner”. Hon Daniel Charles and Robert Desmond, in separate chats with LEADERSHIP, agreed that though the accidental shooting of the protesting youth by soldier was not deliberate, “the youths shouldn’t have gone to the extent of vandalizing the home of our paramount ruler.” The founder of the New Face group said, “Even though many of the protesters are complaining of leadership failure in Twon Brass, we condemn the attack on the palace of the King and if the people wants to make their grievances known, it must be done in the right way. We should listen and ask question if we are not satisfied. What we are calling for is a better Twon Brass with the right leadership.” It would be recalled that the protest staged on Tuesday by the people of Twon Brass Kingdom against Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) over the prolonged power outage and ill-treatment meted out to people from the community in the employ of the oil company snow-balled into a major crackdown as soldiers were deployed to disperse the protesters. LEADERSHIP also gathered that tension heightened in the community at about noon over the shooting of one of the protesters and others injured as they scampered for safety from the trigger happy soldiers. Findings revealed that the protest which began on Friday continued on Monday and Tuesday after information filtered out that some influential traditional rulers in the community have been paid by the oil company to discourage the protest. Sources in the community confirmed that the Amayanabo of Twon Brass, King Alfred Diete- Spiff who was not happy with the turn of events had gone to address the protesters to allow peace reign. The paramount ruler palace was reportedly vandalized by the angry protesters. However things took a turn for the worse when the protesters began to rain invectives on him and stoning him with sachet water. Sources said some of the protesters moved to vandalize his vehicle, forcing security personnel to whisk him away from the scene. After the King was rescued, soldiers were called in and they started shooting to disperse the protesters from the barricade mounted. “The soldiers came in and started shooting. In the process one person was shot in the leg while many people were injured in the attempt to scamper for safety,” an eyewitness in the community said.  