 By the nature and position of Chief of Army staff, COAS, not many men will ever  rise through the ranks to achieve the pinnacle of service in the Army. It is not just  an honor to be found worthy and appointed to the rank of a 3 Star General in the  Nigerian Army, it is a position of great responsibility to the Nation and for the  men that serve under you. In light of the war we have been fighting for over a decade in the North-East and  the various other hotspots and flare ups of violence and insecurity, the position  of COAS is a formidable challenge to any man that must lead other men and  women into armed conflict and to win peace. I have had the pleasure and honor  in my life, of meeting many such men from other countries and a few in Nigeria;  from various services in the Military. I can wholeheartedly say, that only a few  had been standout leaders to me. Leaders willing to put their souls into the Job  at hand and make a difference while setting a high bar. Lt. General Attahiru was one of those very few Men in my opinion. A gentle giant  with a hope for peace and a mindset to propel change in the Army and in  Nigeria, our country he dearly loved and served. I had the pleasure of meeting  him after his appointment by Mr.President and he was solemnly aware about the  responsibilities he had at hand. He was not a vengeful man in anyway and he   was well aware that the country needed to pivot into a winning mentality, which  needed to start with victory in the North-East, peace in the South and unity in  the East. In his opinion, all these were winnable battles for peace to reign in  Nigeria. We met a few more times before his confirmation by the senate and I remember  a notable exchange he had with a legislative committee set up to probe  spending by the military. He had not been able to attend a number of invitations  by the committee before that day and when challenged by members of the  committee, he replied with a tone that made me proud. To paraphrase his  comments, he had to remind the members that he had a job to do, an army to  get familiar with, formations to inspect and the moral of men to raise. Such was  the sense of duty of this man.Our interactions were private, but always deep and focus on his men and  improvements he wanted to make for them to strengthen their resolve and  productivity. He knew that the task was an uphill one and it would be a tireless  one for him. He wanted to improve greatly on the engagement parity between  his men and the various combatants they were facing. He wanted to remove  parity in their field weapons, feeding, supply and logistics and above all force  protection of his men. He knew well, the army’s service history during the 80’s  when he was in Liberia and how the Nigerian Army performed and liberated   Liberia amongst other African countries. He would say, he has a job to do for his  men and for this great country. On another occasion, we talked about the Army then and now and one thing he  lamented on was that even during the time of service of Mr President, the army  force readiness was around 70%. Battalion strengths and equipment was at  peak form, so much so that we could participate in United Nations peacekeeping duties around the world with top quality equipment, a ready fighting  force and also generate income for the Government due to this force readiness  structure. He believed that our force strength was quite low and his dream in the  next two years was to get it to around 50% force readiness. I wanted to take this opportunity to write about Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru  because I believe he was the man for the moment, someone that we needed  presently at the helm of affairs at the Army. I wanted to pay tribute to his service  for wanting to prove himself to our nation and His President; that he was a  worthy choice for the job of defeating our present enemies and to leave a worthy  legacy at his term end as COAS. The fact that we will never know what would  have actually happened under his leadership is not lost on me, but I appreciated  and know how much he put into wanting to make these feelings he expressed  into a reality. I pray that the current service chief’s all have the desires of a resounding victory  as our late COAS did. I am hopeful that who ever Attahiru’s replacement may be,  he brings patriotism, bravery, wisdom and clarity of purpose to the task at hand. He should know that he is the servant of the people, under the authority of a  democratically elected Commander in Chief and that the Unity and integrity of  Nigeria must be his paramount ambition. At this very sober moment, Nigerians  deserve to feel a sense of hopefulness, capacity in our armed forces and  national security. We want to know that the service chief’s will be given all the  tools needed to defend us from all our enemies, be they foreign or domestic. General Irabor (CDS), Air Marshal Amao (CAS), Vice Admiral Gambo (CNS) and  IG Adamu all deserve a chance to prove that they are fit for the weighty task at hand and like all Nigerians, I am sure that we all want them to be provided with  the tools for the task, after all they are the end users, they are our defenders.  Regardless of past issues and doubts on funding and payments etc, if we don’t  defend Nigeria by all means necessary, we will have no economy, no cities, no  life and no country to call home; should our enemies have their way. We must  spend and sue for peace and stability We are always too quick to move on, in a haste for what’s next, but I wish as a  Nation we would take some time out to pause and reflect on our journey so far  and have meaningful projections about where we are going as a nation. I wish  we would take time to appreciate each other at all levels of humanity and have  real understanding of our differences. We need to stop being agitated by  individuals who wish to propel their ambitions and thirst for power by any means  necessary, even if it means dividing this great country. We are a Nation, imperfect like all others. Nigeria and Nigerians must continue  on this sole path as a Nation, even through this difficult period. We have lost too  many gallant men and women in this fight for a united Nigeria. We must also be  aware that; no nation has had zero bloodshed in its growth, but let us all also be  crystal clear that no nation on earth has ever survived two civil wars. I pray that  nation builders, peacemakers, men and women of God and those who took an  oath to defend this nation in our parliament, help us through this rocky road we   are passing through at this moment in our Nations History. In history, this will  just be etched as a difficult period for Nigeria. Attahiru’s dream was to serve Nigeria well and ring in the bells of peace. I write  in his name praying for that same peace to reign in Nigeria and that all those  who serve us gallantly are all remembered, for they are the defenders of our  democracy. Fighters against those that will do us harm and test our  togetherness as one people. We are all descendants of Abraham, serving one  God in a country that must remain one. May the Almighty rest the souls of the brave men and women we have lost and  sooth the hearts of those they have left behind. We pray for the Almighty to continue to bless Nigeria.  