Here are tips on healthy drinks you can have at home or in the workplace! Flavored waters are everywhere these days, but many contain sugar or artificial sweeteners. A healthier choice is natural flavoring: Just add slices of your favorite fruits, veggies, and herbs – try lemons, oranges, watermelon, cucumber, mint, or limes – to a pitcher of ice-cold water for a refreshing and flavorful drink.  A review of green tea research reveals that it may help reduce the risk of several types of cancer, heart disease, obesity, liver disease, and type 2 diabetes. In addition to this, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) notes that green tea is calorie-free (if you have it without milk or sugar) and naturally high in antioxidants, according to a review.  Plain, old-fashioned H20 is the healthiest substitute for soda, “but sometimes, people have a tough time making the switch directly from drinking soda to water,” Kennedy says. One way to smooth this transition: Sip seltzer. You’ll get the hydration of water with the feel of carbonation from soda, Kennedy says, and there are no downsides in terms of health.  There’s no need to purchase sugary sodas or pricey, so-called vitamin-enhanced waters – which also pack calories – when instead you can mix 100 per cent no-sugar-added juice with seltzer. A thick, tart juice, such as pomegranate or grape, makes for a great “jeltzer” base, in addition to supplying potential health benefits. Mix one part juice with three parts seltzer to create this light and bubbly concoction.  Can’t give up your favorite citrus-flavored soda? Indulge in an occasional treat with a healthier version made with lemon or lime and a small amount of sweetener. Start with a glass of sparkling or seltzer water and add a few slices of lemon or lime (or both) and a dash of stevia-based sweetener, which is calorie-free and low in carbohydrates. A little goes a long way, so use it sparingly. Vegetable juice offers a quick, low-calorie way to get many of the benefits of veggies, without fiber. It also contains much less natural sugar than fruit juices, according to chapter 8 of Culinary Nutrition. For example, 1 cup of orange juice contains roughly 24 grams (g) of sugar, while 1 cup of tomato juice contains 6 g of sugar. But vegetable juice can be high in sodium – 1 cup of tomato juice has 629 milligrams (mg) of sodium, which is roughly 27 per cent of your daily value – so opt for a low-sodium version whenever possible.  One cup of non-fat milk provides 250 mg of calcium, or 19 per cent of your daily value, and 40.8 international units of vitamin D, roughly 10 per cent of your daily value. But for those who are lactose intolerant or who don’t consume dairy, soy milk can be a good protein-packed, plant-based alternative, available in a variety of flavors, including almond and vanilla.