ADEBAYO WAHEED captures the intrigues arising from the recent Supreme Court judgement which nullified the sack of local government chairmen in Oyo State. The recent Supreme Court judgment on the dissolution of elected local government administration in Oyo State by Governor Seyi Makinde can be seen as an affirmation of the illegality of caretaker chairmen as heads of local government at the grassroots level. Makinde had sacked the elected council executives by fiat within days of his swearing-in as governor on May 29, 2019. The sacked council executives were elected in May 2018 for a three-year tenure which was supposed to lapse this month. But that did not happen because of Makinde’s action. As a result, the elected council chairmen under the auspices of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) commenced a battle from the state High Court to the Court of Appeal and ended at the Supreme Court. At the Supreme Court, the case was unanimously nullified by the judges who described the governor’s action as executive recklessness. It directed the governor to pay the sacked officials their total salaries and entitlements for the remaining two years of their tenure which they were deprived of and an additional 10 months salary as a special penalty for his action. It also fined the governor N20 million for his action, mandating him to implement the judgement by August 7, this year. It should be noted that virtually all the successive governments in the state, regardless of party, have indulged in this unlawful practice of imposing caretaker chairmen as the head of local government administration in the state. Interestingly, the ruling PDP, while in opposition, during the administration of late governor Ajimobi, argued that the elected council chairmen emerged through an electoral sham. The party, however, said the chairmen and councillors should be removed from office through a court process and not by a sudden sack pronouncement without recourse to the rule of law as the incumbent governor did. Reacting to the judgement however, the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), berated Makinde for putting the financial resources of the state in jeopardy over what it described as the “executive rascality of the governor”. The state’s ALGON chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, said the judgement confirmed the association’s position that Makinde lacks respect for rule of law. He said “It pleased their Lordships to monetize our restoration to physically occupy our offices, but to be paid fully our salaries and allowances till March 2022. He added that they accept the condition but with concern as the state financial resources are now put in jeopardy because of the “executive rascality” of the governor who will “now pay us and continue to pay the illegal caretaker contraption he unleashed on local government councils.” He likened it to a case of paying two sets of workers for the same position, describing it as a waste of resources by the government. He said ALGON would have loved the apex court to order the governor to pay the sacked council executives from his personal and business accounts for “his lawlessness, arrogance of power and impunity notwithstanding his immunity.” The governor had offered to pay off the sacked council executives as a condition for out-of-court settlement. This much was attested to by the chief press secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa and PDP in the state. But the sacked council chairmen rejected the offer, saying it would amount to a corrupt practice to collect money for a job not done and not ordered by a court of law. They insisted on returning to their offices which made the case go all the way to the Supreme Court. Celebrating the judgment, APC called for the postponement of the May 22, 2021 local government election in the state. APC chairman in the state Chief Akin Oke at a press conference organised by ALGON, said the postponement would allow his party to participate in the election. “We could not be part of the preparation for that election at the initial stage because we felt the dissolution of democratically elected chairmen and councillors was illegal. “Now that we have been vindicated, it is thus right for the government to give a level playing field in order for us to test our popularity,” he said PDP fired back as it asked leaders of the opposition APC to bury their heads in shame for proclaiming a spurious victory on the May 7 ruling of the Supreme Court on the tussle over local council administration. The state’s PDP publicity secretary, Engineer Akeem Olatunji, said the governor, instead, deserved to be hailed as a special prophet who saw tomorrow because he had earlier offered the sacked ALGON chairmen the same conditions they got from the apex court. The Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) took a different dimension on the issue as it called for the immediate return of all the illegally earned salaries and allowances by the successive caretaker chairmen. Welcoming the judgement, the party “By this judgement, it is very clear that all of the salaries and allowances earned by any individual who had functioned at one time or another as caretaker chairmen in the State regardless of the government behind their appointment is illegal and unlawful.” The party therefore called for a “refund of all of their illegally earned salaries and allowances throughout the period of their respective tenure.” The Oyo State government was silent on the issue raised by SPN. But it noted being on the same page with the Justices of the Supreme Court on the payment of salaries and allowances of the dissolved chairmen and councillors of local government councils in the state. Chief press secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, said the government had showcased its commitment to paying off the dissolved chairmen and councillors as far back as February 2020, when its negotiation team, pursuant to the out-of-court order of the Oyo State High Court, offered the council chairmen and councillors the same condition which the Supreme Court affirmed. According to a statement signed by Adisa, the state government said the Supreme Court judgement was a policy decision which apparently sends a message to states in its attempt to protect elected local governments councils. But speaking to LEADERSHIP on the matter an activist, Biodun Ajiboye, noted that it is unfortunate that the state has to bear the brunt of the wasteful actions of politicians. “In certain climes such action by the governor attracts severe chastisement if not a move to have him account for the loss his action has caused the state. “But this scenario speaks to the awkward political system we have, where governors manage state affairs as if it is an extension of their private political kingdom. It’s truly sad,” he said. For public affairs analyst, Mr Chuks Nwachukwu, the age long clamour for reforms in the local government administrative system is needed. “A situation where governors can just wake up and sack elected local government chairmen is quite worrisome. “The implication of such action is the enthronement of lawlessness and rascality in the polity. This has to change if we, as a people, must make progress,” he said. While the cost arising from the court action now rests on the state to bear, the negative impact or otherwise of the chairmen’s sack on the governance of the state might not be known.