BY OLUSHOLA BELLO | Rite Foods Limited has promised to continue to produce world-class products for the benefits of its consumers. This, it promised to do, through the possibility of the state-of-the-art infrastructure and up-to-the-minute technology deployed in its production factory. The company’s managing director, Mr. Seleem Adegunwa, at the recent Rite Foods Brand Academy organised for content drivers at its first-rate factory at Ososa, Ogun State, said, the company, which started with a humble beginning, has set the pace for others in the industry through unique brands that are proven to be unrivalled by consumers. He said the rapid success of the indigenous company can be attributed to its quality consciousness and technological advancement it has attained. Adegunwa affirmed that the company’s exceptional brands are produced with machineries that are the best from across the world, thus ensuring the most hygienic and global standard it has maintained since inception. On a tour of the infrastructure, the content drivers were inundated with the Nigerianess and “I CAN, I AM” mantra of Rite Foods. They were also amazed with the up-to-date technology installed in the factory, which are automated with little or no – human interference, with artificial intelligence at all phases of the production processes,  thereby ensuring the delivering of quality products at optimum capacity. The Rite Foods MD explained that the factorygenerates its own source of electricity via the largest solar plant in West Africa, alongside its usage of gas and diesel induced plant connected to the National Grid that facilitates seamless, uninterrupted power supply to the highly sensitive, sophisticated technology infrastructure. According to him,the global approach was induced to enable the company deliver unparalleled brands to meet consumers expectation, which according to market survey, has been surpassed, with the largest market share in the sausage and beverage sector of the Nigerian economy.