By Ejike Ejike, Abuja As part of the activities to assist the less-privileged and the needy, the principal partner of Plymouth Consult Nigeria, Temi George, has donated food, medicals to women in Zamani village, a suburb of Abuja. The gesture, according to her, was part of her ways of impacting on the lives of the less-privileged, who may not have access to the basic life necessities. She also said the women will be given medical voucher, especially for those who indicate that they need the hospital care and they will also be given foodstuff and some other household items. NGO Empowers 120 Widows, Less-privileged Women In FCT   Speaking at an event, where the donations were made, George said:
“We are here today with the rural women of Zamani village to educate them on environmental sustainability, mental health care and wellness and also how to sustain the family and part of ways to sustain the family is through family planning. “Also, we have decided to assist in medical bills and we have paid for a number of the women to access family planning treatment at the Naval hospital since the village does not have a primary health care system.” On the reasons why she embarked on the project, George said, “This is not the first intervention programme we are doing, we have done one in Enugu to some select secondary schools, where we taught them on how to take care of their environment and how to take care of themselves in order to sustain their future. Aside from that, we have done for some rural women in Ekiti State, so this is the third one and we hope to reach out to more communities within the FCT and the country at large. “Also, my staff lives among the people in Zamani village so, I decided to extend the gesture through her and to her community. “It is also part of my activities to mark by 40 years anniversary. God has been great to me and I want to share my blessings with other people.” Also speaking, one of the beneficiaries, Madam Alice Adamu, said the donation was the first of its kind from someone who is not related to them in any way, to dedicate her time to assist the local women.