A former Minister of Transport, Admiral Festus Porbeni (rtd), has dismissed reports linking a former head of state, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd) to sponsorship of banditry in the country. Recently, the social media was awash with reports linking an helicopter allegedly belonging to the former Head of State, to food supplies and others materials to bandits in Niger State. But, Porbeni, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt on Thursday stated that Abdulsalami does not own or operate any helicopter as being speculated. The former Transport minister said: “General Abubakar stayed in office for only 11 months after mounting the saddle following the sudden death of the then military head of state, General Sani Abacha and was not desperate to enrich himself. “He stayed for only 11 months in office after the nation’s power game bestowed on him the opportunity to take over the mantle of leadership following the death of his principal, General Sani Abacha. “Even when there was a clarion call for him to stay put in office for at least two years before handing over to a democratically elected government, he turned down their entreaty. “His reason being that he didn’t want the symptomatic effect of the June 12 imbroglio and the demise of the Nigeria’s most celebrated maximum leader to rob off his quest to deliver good and quality governance to Nigeria,” he said. Porbeni, who was also former Chief of Administration, Defence Headquarters, described Gen Abdulsalami as a man of impeccable character that has always stood for the good of Nigeria and humanity at large. He stated that the former head of state has earned the enormous respect of Nigerians following his excellent conduct in and out of office and would do nothing to tarnish such reputation. The former Transport minister said: “I make bold to say that Abdusalami Abubakar is a peacemaker, a man of high impeccable character which he has built over the years and would not want that to be destroyed in the theater of morbid melancholy and ignorance. “I therefore call on Nigerians to desist from spreading fake news as this is capable of destroying the fabric that holds the country as one indivisible entity called Nigeria.”  RELATED: Abdulsalami Disowns Helicopter Allegedly Supplying Bandits Food(Opens in a new browser tab)