The director-general of the World Trade Organisation, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has said African countries must do everything to let the African continental free trade area (AfCFTA) agreement work. Okonjo-Iweala joined the director-general of the World Health Organisation, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in stressing the need for African countries to have access to vaccines as a way to recover sustainably from the pandemic. Speaking at the Africa Day conversations, organised by the United Bank for Africa (UBA) yesterday, Okonjo-Iweala said the WTO is ready to provide support for African countries in either acquiring vaccines from producers outside the continent or for the manufacturing of the vaccines within the continent. “I really believe in the AfCFTA, although there are still logistical issues that prevent us from benefiting. Some parts of the continent are doing a lot better than others. We still have lorries lining up at borders,” she said. The AfCFTA, launched in March 2018, is a trade agreement between 54 AU member states, with the goal of creating a single, unified market for goods and services followed, facilitated by free movement and a single-currency union. The implementation was postponed in 2020 due to COVID-19 pandemic. “We have this AU passport, so business people can get one and ordinary Africa can get so we can move easily across Africa. I am very hopeful. If we want the African continent free trade area to work, we must make good, services and people flow easily across borders. I am very hopeful, really hopeful. “Lastly, we don’t really have a choice, if we want to change the tenor of growth in Africa, rely more on ourselves, and less on the outside, if we want to export and specialised more, to add value to our raw materials, we’ve got to make the AfCFTA work and the WTO is expectant and waiting to support the continent to make this work.” “If we are to recover sustainably from this crisis, we have to correct vaccine inequity that is evident in the world today. The fact that we have vaccinated so little is not acceptable, the fact that we import 99 per cent of vaccines and 90 per cent of pharmaceuticals is not acceptable. “The IMF says if we spend $50 billion additional to vaccinate 40 per cent of the world’s population by 2021, and 60 per cent by 2022, we would be able to reverse vaccine inequity and the world’s global GDP can gain $9 trillion by 2025. The numbers are staggering compare $50 billion to N9 trillion that we could make if we did this right and we could collect $1 trillion additional in taxes. “It is important for the world that we reverse this vaccine inequity and Africa benefits form it we cannot recover sustainably without it. We have to fight for it whether it is getting more vaccines from outside manufacturers or manufacturing our own, and the WTO stands ready to do its bit to keep supply chains open for this manufacture. In his opening remarks, the President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame noted that partnership is critical for the African continent to be able to recover from the effects of the pandemic saying “the private sector has a big role to play in this. This will not be the last global crisis and the next one should not catch Africa unprepared again. When you talk about the emergence of a new Africa, that means a continent that is confident in our ability to meet the needs of our people.”