Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, the minister of trade and industry, Otunba Richard Adebayo are expected to be among top government officials that will be attending the 2021 United States – Nigeria Investment Summit in New York as part of efforts to woo investors to the country. The duo would this September lead a delegation of ministers, governors and key industry leaders to engage the United States government, industry captains and investors with a message of the importance of accessing Nigeria’s economic opportunities and re-emergence as a market that reaches beyond its borders for global trade. Holding on the heels of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) the summit is expected to present to the investing public, the importance and opportunities of Nigeria’s market in the 21st century. While the US and Nigeria are arriving at a post-COVID-19  season, they are unlikely to return to the world that was. Especially, with the acceleration of the digital economy fueling activities like telehealth / medicine, delivery services, remote work, and learning, and simultaneously delivering the case for the importance of supply chain regionalisation around basics like food and medicines. In addition, accelerated activities like e-commerce and cross-border data flows make economic collaborations between both countries an absolute necessity. Nigeria, Africa’s largest economy and most populous nation, and a vital member of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA); the world’s largest free trade area, carries significant impact to the Future of Work that is already upon us. The technological advancement that has ushered in the future of work also brings with it additional investment considerations and opportunities for global economies and labour markets. The US-Nigeria Investments Summit announced it would hold a global trade and investment event for 2021 in September in direct response to these trends and opportunities. The organisation recently announced a partnership with the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Investment.  In addition, the US Department of State has affirmed with a letter, its intentions to broaden commerce and investment engagements with Nigeria and plans to participate in the summit on September 18, 2021. READ ALSO: Coalition Passes Vote Of Confidence On Emefiele(Opens in a new browser tab)