BY BODE GBADEBO A former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, has called on the Federal Government to immediately arrest the Kaduna-based Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, over his alleged involvement with the kidnappers of Kaduna college students. Fani-Kayode in a press release on Wednesday, said given the revelation by one of the parents of the students that it was Gumi, who linked them up with an intermediary who collected the sum of N800,000 contributed by the kidnapped students’ parents, the cleric was an accessory to terrorism, kidnapping and murder. “I hereby call on the Federal Government to invite, arrest and interrogate Sheik Ahmad Gumi. Assuming this lady’s testimony is true it provides clear evidence of him being an accessory and accomplice to terrorism, abduction, kidnapping and murder. “He is a BAG man, a FRONT and a PR officer for the terrorists that have plagued our land and I have no doubt that he personally benefits from the ransoms that are being paid. “If this were not the case he would not spend his entire life attempting to defend, justify, rationalise and explain their barbaric, homicidal, savage and beastly ways,” the former minister said. He added that if Sheikh Gumi is not arrested and interrogated, it will amount to insincerity and lack of commitment in the fight against terrorism and the sponsors, on the part of the Federal Government. “These people have so much blood on their hands yet Gumi still holds himself out as their advocate and best friend. He is nothing but an extortionist who thrives on the misery and blood of those that have been murdered and kidnapped. First it was Pantami and now this! “How much longer do the people of Nigeria have to put up with evil and wicked men like this? Enough is enough! If no-one else will say it I WILL. “Gumi must be brought to justice and so must every single one of his foreign Fulani terrorist friends and all those within and outside Government that have links with ISIS, Al Qaeda, Boko Haram, the Fulani terrorists, the Taliban, ISWA, Al Shabab and any other evil terrorist organisation which seeks to kill and Islamise our people and conquer and occupy our territory and nation. “Nigerians are being murdered every day and our soldiers are on the war front being slaughtered by these barbarians and animals yet some that are highly placed in society are still supporting them? This is nothing but wickedness. This is evil. This is wrong. This is unacceptable. “If the Federal Government refuses to act against Gumi it will raise questions about their commitment to fighting terror and stopping the terrorists. Every day people are being killed and kidnapped. This madness has to stop and those behind it and that covertly support it must be brought to justice,” he stated.