Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has called for increase of the current 13% derivation fund to 25% as well as the devolution of powers from the centre to the states. The governor also called for the fiscal federalism, creation of state police, strengthening of the electoral system as well as allowing states to create and sustain local government councils. Wike, who spoke on Thursday in Port Harcourt, while declaring open the South-South zonal public hearing on the review of 1999 Constitution, further called for the reduction of the cost of governance at both federal and state levels. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Ipalibo Harry-Banigo, said Nigerians needed a constitution that will give them a true sense of belonging, secure and advance their well-being. He said: “We are not even processing a new constitution; a people’s constitution, which to some people is the only path to having a united, peaceful, cohesive and progressive nation. “Others believe that the basis for a new constitution does not exist since we already have a constitution that we have practised for over 20 years now, which shortcomings can be corrected through amendments. “The truth is that whether new or old, what Nigeria and Nigerians need is a constitution approximates the collective aspiration of all Nigerians to live in a country that is free, fair and just to all component parts. “Nigerians need a constitution that will give them a true sense of belonging, secure and advance their well-being and enable their children to aspire to achieve their potentials for any office without discrimination. “No one is under illusion that the present Constitution does not meet the minimum conditions that can keep and sustain a multi-cultural and mutually-suspicious nationalities together. “No one is deceived that present constitution annihilates minority society, justifies the provocative exploitation of the people’s resources and gives greater resources to a glutinous federal government, to the detriment of the states and local government areas. “We, therefore, need a constitution that addresses the lingering issues, including but not limited to the following; devolution of power from the centre to the states, fiscal federalism, creation of state police, strengthen of the electoral system, increasing the derivation fund to not less than 25 per cent, allowing states to create and sustain local government councils and reducing the cost of governance at both federal and state levels. “Rivers State believes in one progressive Nigeria; we believe in the unity and indivisibility of this country and therefore will not support any move by any person or groups to dismember or divide this country.”