BY HENRY TYOHEMBA, Abuja The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has paraded a 50 year-old man arrested over impersonation in the ongoing Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME) registration. The suspect, who is identified as Sesan Obasa, was paraded along side his accomplice, whose name was given as Salvation Terhembe, at JAMB’s headquarters in Abuja. JAMB said the two suspects were picked up over their alleged involvement in impersonation during the ongoing 2021 UTME registration. JAMB Unveils New Feature To Tackle Exams Malpractice  Terhembe was picked up by a staff of JAMB at one of the Board’s registration centres in Bwari, following his unsuccessful attempts to carry out the UTME registration on behalf of Obasa. The 36 year-old had appeared before a JAMB registration official on Thursday and could have successfully scaled the first accreditation when the picture on the National Identification Number (NIN) showed he was impersonating Obasa. Terhembe, who admitted to carrying out the act, said he was contacted by Obasa to supply his information for registration at the JAMB centre because he was busy with work, adding, however, that he was only assisting him and not aware that his actions breached any rule of JAMB. Speaking in defence of his actions, 50 year-old Obasa, who had applied to study public administration, said he was misled by his determination to go to school, which moved him with desperation to put in for JAMB exams this year. He admitted that Terhembe carried out UTME registration on his behalf, and pleaded for leniency as he was completely unaware that his actions were tantamount to identity fraud. JAMB Registrar, Prof Ishaq Oloyede, who lauded the efficacy of NIN in checkmating identity fraud, said that but for the use of NIN, the impersonator would have successfully carry out his registration. Oloyede, who was visibly miffed by the activities of the duo, described them as “fraudsters,” vowing to hand them over to the police. “You can see the advantages of NIN, by the time we put this boy to test, you would see that he had done registration in previous years for other people but because of we were able to uncover this,” he said.