With the observation of the HIV Vaccine Awareness Day on May 18, Elizabeth Joseph-Williams delves into how HIV treatment has evolved and what promises the vaccine holds for Nigeria. The number of people dying of AIDS-related illnesses has reduced by more than 55% since the peak of 1.7 million in 2004 and 1.4 million in 2010, according to the Global HIV and AIDS statistics. However globally, HIV continues to be a major public health issue. Ndidi Chukwuemeka, a student, agrees that the awareness of HIV treatments available has greatly helped people view the virus as less deadly, He says “It is important that people know that HIV can be managed with drugs now. I guess the awareness is out there now and so people think less of it as a death sentence.” Agnes Alabi Ahmed, says she’s glad for babies born to mothers living with HIV. “My joy is that no baby has to be born with HIV because the mother is positive. There’s hope for them now, I’m so glad. Indeed, after many interventions with HIV treatments available, it appears a vaccine will be a great addition to the prevention efforts. HIV Treatment Evolution HIV treatment comprises taking medicines that slow the progression of the virus in the body. All people living with HIV are recommended to take ART, regardless of how long they’ve had the virus or how healthy they might be at the moment. A look at the evolution of the treatment shows that:  1987: FDA Approves First Medication For AIDS In March 1987, the first treatment for AIDS, AZT, was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). AZT, a form of antiretroviral therapy (ART), prevents the virus infecting more cells. The drug was later approved for children with AIDS in 1990 and then prescribed for pregnant women to prevent transmission to new-borns in 1994. 1995-1996: Combatting Drug Resistance By Combining ART The first protease inhibitor (PI) available for HIV/AIDS patients, Roche’s saquinavir, was approved by the FDA accelerated programme in 1995. Saquinavir binds to the active site of the viral protease, preventing the virus’ maturation and infection of more cells. The same year researchers discovered that the HIV virus was beginning to develop resistance to approved ARTs. The FDA therefore, authorized saquinavir to be used in combination with AZT in an attempt to mitigate HIV’s drug resistance. 2000s: Making ARTs Available In Developing Countries Despite this impressive headway in HIV/AIDS treatments, pricing prevented the widespread use of ARTs in developing countries. This led to UNAIDS establishing a joint initiative with the World Health Organization (WHO) to persuade five pharmaceutical companies to reduce the price of their ARTs in developing countries. In May 2000, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Glaxo-Wellcome and Merck agreed to slash HIV/AIDS drug costs by as much as 80%, according to the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development. US President Bill Clinton issued an executive order to support developing countries in both importing and developing generic versions of ARTs. In 2003, US President George W Bush, created the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). By 2009, under PEPFAR, the FDA had approved 100 drugs for use in combating HIV/AIDS outside of the US; 29 were new drugs and 71 were generics. 2010s: Exploring How Antiretroviral Therapy Prevents Transmission Several studies completed throughout the 2010s discovered that treatment with antiretroviral therapy reduced the risk of spreading the infection with HIV-negative partners. The HIV Prevention Trials Network’s HPTN052 study found approximately 96% lower risk of transmission compared to the placebo group, with only one case of transmission from a HIV patient to their partner in 886 couples over two years. There’s such a thing as treatment prevention. This is when people living with HIV take HIV medication daily as prescribed and maintain an undetectable viral load thus having effectively no risk of sexually transmitting HIV to their HIV-negative partners. 2019: Second Patient Achieves HIV Remission After Stem Cell Transplant In March 2019, University College London (UCL) and Imperial College London announced that a patient known as the ‘London patient’ had also been cleared of HIV following a stem cell transplant to treat Hodgkin’s lymphoma. The stem cell donor had two copies of the CCR5-delta32 genetic mutation, like the donor in the first, Berlin patient case. Stem cell transplant could be a potential permanent treatment for HIV. However, partners are also looking into the possibility of an HIV vaccine. The Vaccine Prospect According to UNAIDS, an estimated 1.7 million individuals worldwide acquired HIV in 2019, marking a 23% decline in new HIV infections since 2010. Although HIV prevalence among adults is much less (1.3%) than other sub-Saharan African countries, Nigeria has the second largest HIV epidemic in the world. The size of Nigeria’s population implies that, in 2019, 1.8 million people were living with HIV. “Only a truly effective, preventive HIV vaccine can limit and eventually eliminate the threat of AIDS,” said President Bill Clinton in 1997. The World AIDS Vaccine Day is a day to educate communities about the importance of HIV vaccine research. It was first observed on May 18, 1998 to commemorate the anniversary of Clinton’s speech. An HIV vaccine, along with existing HIV treatment and prevention strategies, will contribute greatly to achieve the goal of ending the HIV epidemic. HIV, is a skilled shape shifter that can produce different strains worldwide, to attack critical immune cells, and to hide in reservoirs from which it can strike again at any time. This makes the prospect of developing a vaccine astoundingly complex when compared with other diseases. Therefore, an HIV vaccine will be an unparalleled scientific achievement. However, there is hope. Scientific and technological innovation and breakthroughs by passionate scientists and technicians are taking us nearer to a vaccine. May 18 is observed as HIV Vaccine Awareness Day (HVAD), to recognise the volunteers, community members, and researchers working to find a safe and effective vaccine to prevent HIV. 