Teachers in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja have been trained on cyber bullying and equipped with the strategy to mitigate against cyber bullying by Xploit Consulting Limited in association with Access Bank. The training was done for selected schools in Bwari, Kuje and Gwagwalada. In Bwari, the beneficiary school was Capville Group of Schools, Dawaki, where 26 teachers were trained, while in Total Child Academy, Sagwari, 22 teachers were trained. In Kuje the beneficiary school was Capital Science Academy where 56 teachers were trained, while in Gwagwalada, Christ Anglican Schools was the beneficiary school where 18 teachers were trained. At Kenford International Academy, 21 teachers were trained. LEADERSHIP reports that the total number of teachers trained on cyber bullying and strategies to mitigate it was 143. Speaking at the training, director, communication, Xploits Consulting Ltd., Mrs Grace Taiwo, explained that Cyber bullying is when one is being bullied online ( facebook, instagram, twitter and group chats (whatsup). She noted that in foreign countries it has made children go as far as committing suicide and so Xploits Consulting Ltd in association with Access Bank are creating awareness on it. In his remarks, the first facilitator, Mr Daniel Ojo, discussed the risk factors that could further expose children to cyber bullying and ways to identify them, while the second speaker, Dr. Inya Ode, discussed the need to be safe and responsible when using the internet and all it has to offer, citing  the axiom “the internet never forgets” as she reminded the teachers that they are mentors to the students. The facilitator, Mr Edward Enejoh, emphasised the damaging role that Cyber bullying can play in the mental development of a child. Responding on behalf of the teachers, Mr Francis Anyanwu, of Capville Schools, Dawaki, commended the efforts of Access Bank Plc and Xploits Consulting Ltd. in identifying the problem of cyber bullying and called for for a legal framework to combat the menace.