By Jonathan Nda-Isaiah The Transitional Military Council of Chad has restated commitment to return the country to democratic rule within the period of 18 months. This is even as President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged to assist the Republic of Chad to stabilise, and return to constitutional order. President Buhari spoke on Friday at the State House in Abuja, while hosting the President, Transitional Military Council of Chad, Lt. Gen. Mahamat Idris Deby Itno. LEADERSHIP recall that Marshal Idris Deby Itno, President of the country, had died in a battle last month while leading troops to confront insurgents, who had come in through Libya. The country set up the transitional council, headed by the son of the deceased president, and a return to democratic order is expected in 18 months. “We are bound together by culture and geography, and we will help in all ways we can,” President Buhari, in a statement by presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, was quoted as telling his visitor. “Nigerians know and appreciate the role Chad played in helping us to combat terrorism, and we will continue the collaboration,” he added. The Nigerian President said the late Marshal Itno “was a personal friend, and a friend of Nigeria, and Chad has been very steadfast in defending Nigeria,” so the country should not hesitate to ask for help in areas it deemed necessary. President Buhari said Nigeria would help strengthen the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) and the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), adding; “We will also help you to ensure a smooth transition in 18 months, as you have promised your people.” Earlier, Lt. Gen. Mahamat Itno thanked Nigeria for the solidarity shown after the passage of the former President Deby, noting that the main objective of the Transitional Military Council “is the security and cohesion of our country.” He recommitted to democratic, free, fair polls in 18 months, telling President Buhari: “You were very close to Marshal Itno. I’m here to reaffirm that relationship, and for you to support our transition. We rely on our brother country Nigeria, as we have shared history, culture and geography. We are ready to be guided by you in our journey to constitutional rule.” RELATED: Chad’s Interim President Visits Abuja, Meets Buhari