A former governor of Niger State, Dr Muazu Babangida Aliyu, has said the tendecies of secession and military intervention in Nigeria will be resisted by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the collage of governors on the party’s platform. The former governor, who spoke with journalists in Abuja against the backdrop of the incessant attacks on the offices of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), said a proper investigation needed to be done to ascertain those responsible and apprehend them. He said those responsible for the burning of INEC offices and police stations were trying to provoke the the country in order to cause an action that will not justify all their actions. He said, “I am very much concerned. I thought the insecurity will stop at the banditry and the Boko Haram thing but with what is happening in the South, it is no more a Fulani thing. “My concern is what has INEC office done that you will go and burn it, what will you achieve? But then when you look at the sub-total of people who constitutionally have a right to ask but not to burn and not to fight, but to ask. “We have a lot of treason in this country but I think the people who are burning INEC offices and police stations are people who are trying to provoke the state, I mean the country; by provoking the country they want an action that will be taken that they will not justify all their actions. “Maybe it may be too much to ask because it is part of the fundamental human rights of people; this dual citizenship thing, I think we must look at it and review it properly. Are you a Nigerian or not a Nigerian? “You will go and serve in the military of a foreign country, then you come back to Nigeria and start agitating for what is not, that is one for that purpose. “In other countries unless you satisfy certain requirements you cannot even run for elections. But here everybody wakes up and begin to run for elections, producing leaders that sometimes may not appreciate the gravity of the situation that we are in. “So it is very important that our security agencies and believe me, each institutions have one security agency or the other, from the military down to the actual SSS, to investigate this matter properly so that we can separate them from what we consider the insecurity – kidnapping, banditry and Boko Haram from this particular internal provocateurs who are trying to provoke the state. We need to distinguish and understand what is happening. “They may relate because we know about these groups that are agitating for separation, agitating for secession and co; so they may be the ones now who are doing this particular one to encourage them and to give them a justification to continue. “I believe, maybe I am too hopeful, the PDP, the former Governors Forum of PDP, indeed the former Governors Forum of Nigeria, and by the way I am the coordinating chairman of the former PDP Governors in Nigeria; we will not agree for secession, we will not support military intervention. Military intervention should remain as history in Nigeria. Whatever mistakes we have made will be corrected as we go along. Any intervention now, will take us back,” Aliyu said. He also said it was morally wrong for governors to defect to another party having gotten elected on the platform of another party. Referencing the recent defection of Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, Aliyu said: “it is a PDP state, we may lose some but we are going to win that state back. I will love in the future to see either a constitutional provision or in our electoral law to say if a party elects you to a particular office, gives you a mandate, president, governor, national and state assembly, councilor, chairman of a local government, that if for any reason you don’t want to go with that party then you should resign but not to defect with the mandate. “For example, these ones that you are referring to, they have defected with the mandate of PDP to APC. That is morally wrong and politically incorrect because the political culture that we are building, we are already putting the holes of political correction in them. “So a law must be established. You are elected on the platform of PDP for this period of time but for some reasons, I find I cannot go with that party, resign your job and wait till the tenure ends for you to get elected on the platform of another party,” he added.