The discovering of the deadly  Indian COVID-19 variant (B.1.718) has heightened the call for implementation of COVID-19 prevention protocols in the country. This concern is informed by the flagrant disregard for COVID-19 prevention protocols by Nigerians. Findings revealed that quite a number of Nigerians are still of the view that the disease does not exist, thus their reasons for not adhering to prevention protocols. Sadly, opinions about the reality of the disease vary even among the seemingly enlightened and educated Nigeeians despite numerous awareness campaigns by government and other relevant stakeholders. Relevant stakeholder, including the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), have therefore  advised the government to enforce COVID-19 protocol, saying it is difficult for people to comply unless there is an enforcement. NMA president, Professor Innocent Ujah, told LEADERSHIP that there was need for regular sensitisation through the National Orientation Agency (NOA), for Nigerians to accept the fact that COV1D-19 is real. “We have advised the government to enforce the protocol because it is difficult for people to comply unless you enforce the protocol,” said Ujah. The NMA also tasked the federal government on emergency plans, preparedness and response to epidemics and pandemic, given the epidemiological triple jeopardy of existing infectious diseases, emerging infections including the ongoing pandemic and the ticking time bomb of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). It appealed to adult Nigerians especially medical and health workers and persons with co-morbidities to go for COVID-19 vaccination as it has been clinically demonstrated to be safe and effective in reducing infection rates. “We should go for vaccination. I have had mine and I have not come to any harm. But that is not to say that people may not have some mild reactions,  said Ujah. He,  however, commended the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19 on the recently issued international travel advisory and followed up with the re-institution of restrictions, all aimed at protecting against a third wave of the infection. On thesame note, the chairman, management committee, Association for the Advancement of Family Planning, Dr Ejike Orji, said the decision on restriction was a right step. He said “If you watch now,  people are not wearing mask, if we are not careful, it may go up again. See what is happening in India, we don’t need to wait till we get to where India is now.” He, however, said that the country has not done enough public education and community engagement on the matter, saying “There is no body you will tell that he will die and he will go and fall inside fire. That is where I think we should invest our money.” Also, the chairman, FCT chapter of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Pharm. Kilani Jelili, regretted that many Nigerians do not comply with prevention measures. “It’s just that many of us  are not really complying and some people are still doubting, even highly placed  people are still not convinced that there is covid.  Yes,  we are happy that maybe our weather is a bit helping us but we should not let our guard down. “I hope that Nigerians will comply with  the protocol that government is actually rolling out. We should know that covid is real and  that is what we should let the public know,” he said. On its part, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has urged Nigerians to a adhere to public health measures, saying “We are seeing a rapid escalation in the number of cases in countries where people gathered in large numbers with poor adherence to public heath and social measures and emergence of new variants. “We must avoid a similar situation in Nigeria.” NCDC DG, Dr. chikwe Ihekweazu, stressed the need for adherence to safety protocols rather than worry about the new variant. “That the virus is in Nigeria is not in its self a reason for concern. The reason for concern is what are we doing? firstly as a government, secondly as a people. There is no point in Nigerians attending weddings that are super spreader events without masks and worrying about the emergence of a variant. “We can only sustain the very fragile gain that we have made when we work together,” he said.