No fewer than four FIFA and UEFA license agents have stormed Kano State, north-western Nigeria, scouting for talents that will fit into modern football from local academies and teams across the state. The agents came under the banner of “60 goals soccer star project” in order to tap into a variety of football talents in the region. The 60 goals soccer star project, is a football player talent scouting initiative that seeks to go deep in search of the best to uplift them to a higher level. The CEO of the project and FIFA intermediary agent, Jane Ndubuisi at a press briefing held in Kano, called on players to dedicate themselves and be honest stressing that only the sky will be their limit. “Scouting for players is a gigantic job in developing countries, talents are being wasted,” Ndubuisi said. “We are here therefore, to pick those talents between ages 16-19 and help them achieve their dreams.” On his part, the 60 goals soccer star project consultant from Scotland and UEFA License coach Miroslav Marjanovic said they are in Kano to give youth a chance to prove themselves. “Youths from rural areas are going to be given the opportunity to showcase their talent, best among them are going to be selected,” Marjanovic said. “My hope is that many of the players here are going to make it, so that they can achieve something for themselves and their immediate society.” In his remark, the president of the 60 goals soccer star project, FIFA intermediary agent and ex-Super Eagles U-23 International Francis Ikechukwu said the project runs an open door policy that accommodates able talents. “We are picking the best of the best to give them an opportunity, we don’t care how many academies will come to our base, we know how to handle them,” Ikechukwu said. “What we need is talent and it’s only your ability that will give you the chance no matter what, because we don’t encourage corruption.” Among the agents present during the press conference is Milan Martinovic (FIFA license agent) and former agent of Chelsea legend Petr Cech. The scouting which is going to commence on the 1st of June 2021, has an age limit for the selection ranging from 16 – 19 years old. 