Arsenal exciting young forward Bukayo Saka has been named in England’s 33-man provisional squad for this summer’s European Championship. Saka is the only Arsenal player Gareth Southgate has selected in his 33-man roster which was unveiled on Tuesday. The youngster has been integral to Mikel Arteta’s plans at the Emirates, making 32 appearances in the 2020/21 Premier League season registering five goals and four assists. Capable of playing at left-back, central midfield and as a winger, Saka is a versatile player which Southgate can use to deal with a mixture of opponents.
Despite this, the England manager has only deployed Saka as a left midfielder in each of his four senior caps. Given the 19-year-old will be up against the likes of Marcus Rashford, Jadon Sancho and Jack Grealish in starting on the wings, Saka’s exploits in a range of positions for Arsenal suggest Southgate would be better suited to playing him elsewhere. Saka has four senior caps for England, all under Southgate, starting on three occasions while coming off the bench in the 2-0 Nations League defeat to Belgium in November 2020. He made his first appearance starting in England’s 3-0 win over Wales in October before scoring on his second outing in another 3-0 friendly win over Ireland a month later. Saka withdrew from England’s most recent World Cup qualifying squad in late March due to injury due to an ongoing issue with his right hamstring.
England’s 33-Man provisional squad for Euro 2020: Goalkeepers: Dean Henderson (Manchester United), Sam Johnstone (West Bromwich Albion), Jordan Pickford (Everton), Aaron Ramsdale (Sheffield United). Defenders: Trent Alexander-Arnold (Liverpool), Ben Chilwell (Chelsea), Conor Coady (Wolves), Ben Godfrey (Everton), Reece James (Chelsea), Harry Maguire (Manchester United), Tyrone Mings (Aston Villa), Luke Shaw (Manchester United), John Stones (Manchester City), Kieran Trippier (Atletico Madrid), Kyle Walker (Manchester City), Ben White (Brighton & Hove Albion). Midfielders: Jude Bellingham (Borussia Dortmund), Jordan Henderson (Liverpool), Jesse Lingard (Manchester United), Mason Mount (Chelsea), Kalvin Phillips (Leeds), Declan Rice (West Ham), James Ward-Prowse (Southampton). Forwards: Dominic Calvert-Lewin (Everton), Phil Foden (Manchester City), Jack Grealish (Aston Villa), Mason Greenwood (Manchester United), Harry Kane (Tottenham), Marcus Rashford (Manchester United), Bukayo Saka (Arsenal), Jadon Sancho (Borussia Dortmund), Raheem Sterling (Manchester City), Ollie Watkins (Aston Villa).