A major  player in the agriculture sector, Agvest Limited, has been screened by the Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange (LCFE) for listing of its N5 billion cashew nut contract by diversified financial instruments. Under the proposed listing, financial instruments worth N1.5 billion with cashew nut as the underline asset, is scheduled to be offered to the investing public through Commercial Papers (CP) and short-term Exchange Traded Notes (ETN). Speaking on the transaction in Lagos, the managing director of Agvest, Mr Olabode Abikoye, explained that proceeds of the offer would enable Agvest get both plantation and factory up and running in West Africa at the first instance. According to him, Agvest shall commence with cashew aggregation on the spot market, issue Exchange Traded Note in the medium term and add value, saying, “our decision to list Cashew Nut contracts on the Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange is to enable private investors enjoy the benefits of quotation. “We shall by this approach support the government’s drive to generate foreign exchange. We have 210 hectares of land as plantation in Iwo, Oyo State and we are working closely with Oyo State Investment and Public Partnership Agency (OYSIPA) to activate our plan. “As a listed product, our cashew shall always meet international standard as prescribed by the International Standard Organisation (ISO), which requires good temperature, moisture level and grade. Many stakeholders in the commodities value chain in Nigeria operate in silos. One of our company’s functions is to integrate the stakeholders in the value chain.” The managing director, Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange (LCFE), Mr Akin Akeredolu-Ale, noted that Nigeria has  opportunities to earn robust income from cashew nut. The chairman, Mega Group, Mr Sam Onukwue, expressed optimism that LCFE would transform the commodities ecosystem and put it on the global map. He stressed that  one of the challenges that raw exporters face is the difficulty in repatriating their funds into the country.