BY TOPE FAYEHUN, Akure Six persons have reportedly lost their lives following a violent clash between members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) and people suspected to be cultists in Owo town, the headquarters of Owo local government area of Ondo state. LEADERSHIP learnt that two
houses were also set ablaze during the fracas between the two groups at Idasen and Ijebu areas of the the ancient town. The clash which started on Tuesday evening, created tension in the town as residents locked themselves indoors for fear of being caught in the shootout between the warring sides. As a the time of filing this report, business activities were paralyzed as security men paraded the town to curb any further reprisal attack. A source informed our reporter that the crisis was caused by attempts by friends and relations of cultists to avenge the death of their members allegedly killed earlier by the OPC during a shootout in the town and at the government forest reserve. According to the source, some members of the OPC including their commandant was said to have gone into hiding as the cultists embarked on a revenge mission. The chairman of Iwo local government area, Mr. Olabade Adegbegi, who condemned the incident, however, said calm has returned to the town. Adegbegi warned trouble makers that government will deal decisively with those fomenting crises. Confirming the incident when contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Tee-Leo Ikoro, who, however, was silent about the killings, explained that “the police is already aware of the incident.” Ikoro said the Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami, has ordered a full-scale investigation into the crisis and deployment of the tactical team including military officers to the area to maintain law and order. According to Ikoro, “We have taken care of everything over there. Both military officers and mobile policemen have been drafted to the town to maintain law and order. “But no arrest has been made yet because immediately they saw policemen, they all run away. Whenever we make any arrests, I will let you know. But as I am talking to you, peace has been restored to the ancient city.”