Governor Abdullahi Alhaji Sule, took over the mantle of leadership as the 4th elected Governor of Nasarawa State on May 29, 2019 amidst high expectations from the teaming citizens of the state. So far, he has spent two years of his four years term with the economy of the state and the overall wellbeing of the people as the main thrust of his administration It would be recalled that in his inaugural address, Gov Sule pledged to focus on Security, Power, Education, Healthcare, Business and Industries, Economy and Agriculture. Other areas of focus according to him include infrastructural and rural development, Youths and Women, traditional institutions as well as civil service and labour relations. This was even as he declared that he would give priority to completing projects left by his immediate predecessor, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, rather than embarking on new projects, because abandoning such projects, he said, would not augur well for the state. Some of the uncompleted projects left by his predecessor included Kilema – Shinge road, Lafia International Cargo Airport, Agyarag Tofa road, Kwandare – Keffi road, Fertilizer Blending Company, among others. However, the heartwarming result is that two years after assuming office, there are good feelings among citizens of the state on the developmental efforts of the governor, whose slogan is “Exceeding All Expectations”. To many political pundits in the state, the policy direction and focus of the APC administration under the watch of Governor Sule, has rekindled the hope and aspiration of the people of the state. The state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dogo Shamma, in a press conference heralding the activities marking the two years in office of the governor, said the present administration has achieved a lot within two years. Listing some of the achievements of the Governor, Dogo Shammah, said there has been remarkable progress made in several sectors especially infrastructure and health. “As we all know, in just two years in office, His Excellency, Engineer Abdullahi A. Sule has brought joy and happiness to our people and even beyond. In two years, the administration of Engineer Abdullahi A. Sule in the State is celebrating many physical projects that were either initiated by it or completed by it; especially those left by previous administrations that are of immense value to our people” “We are also celebrating the sustenance of peace and security of lives and property achieved through the dogged effort of His Excellency not only in the State but also in the entire North-Central geo-political zone of the country” “Consequent upon this peace effort and other friendly economic measures, investors are already making the State their destination. For instance, the likes of Azman Group of Companies and Flour Mills Nigeria, are in our communities engaging in various agro-allied businesses.” “As Government, we are also proud to tell our story of many impactful successes so far achieved. For instance, in the health sector government has completed and commissioned the Infectious Disease Centre in Lafia; the School of Nursing also achieved full accreditation “It has also carried out renovation and equipping of Primary Healthcare Centres across the state. We are proud with the way and manner His Excellency has able to handle the Covid 19 pandemic in the state, this has resulted in the low prevalence rate recorded in the state” “In the area of rural development, His Excellency, has also been able to achieve so much within two years. For instance, there is construction of Sisimbaki-Kwarra road in Wamba LGA, which is to be commissioned as part of activities marking two years in office and the ongoing construction of Mararaba Udege to Udege rural road in Nasarawa LGA. There is also the completion of the urban road construction in Shinge, Lafia as well as the ongoing construction of modern motor parks in Karu, Keffi, Akwanga and Lafia, which will be inspected” In addition, the commissioner said, Gudi market has been constructed and commissioned; the Engineering Faculty of Nasarawa State University Gudi, has attained 95% completion as well as the Technical and Vocational College Lafia. He said students of Nasarawa State origin in higher institutions across the country, have also been paid their bursary allowances running into hundreds of millions of naira. Speaking on the two years in office of the governor, APC’s caretaker committee chairman in Nasarawa State, Dr John Mamman, expressed confidence in the governor’s performances so far. He said it was a good start, adding that the achievements of Sule’s administration is worthy of note. “Governor Sule has done very well within his first two years. He has kept to his promises and we pray he will sustain the tempo because it is a good start. When you have a leader that made these kinds of promises and fulfilled it, I think much is expected from him in the future. “If these much could be achieved in two years then you should expect that the life of his administration, which is four years, people of Nasarawa state are going to be happy with him at the end” “ As you can see, in the last two years, he has so far shown he is a man of his words and straight forward person by ensuring that all ongoing projects inherited by his predecessor are being completed” he said. Also speaking, the chairman of Lafia local government area who doubles as ALGON chairman of Nasarawa State, Hon Muazu Aminu Maifata, gave the governor a pat on the back for the unprecedented achievements within two years. ”The governor means business, and as you can see he is providing good governance to the teaming people of the state” Maifata, called on the people of the state to support Gov Sule and the APC administration in the state, to enable it serve them even better.