The Senate yesterday considered a bill seeking to prohibit the payment and receipt of ransom for the release of any person kidnapped, imprisoned or wrongfully confined. When passed into law and assented to by the president, anyone who pays or receives ransom will be liable to 15 years’ imprisonment The proposed law known as Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and sponsored by Senator Ezenwa Francis Onyewuchi scaled the second reading at yesterday’s plenary. In his lead debate on the bill, Onyewuchi said the proposed legislation seeks to amend the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2013 to outlaw the payment of ransom to abductors, kidnappers and terrorists for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped. Onyewuchi said the bill essentially seeks to substitute section 14 of the principal Act with a new section to read: “Anyone who transfers funds, makes payment or colludes with an abductor, kidnapper or terrorist to receive any ransom for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped is guilty of a felony and is liable on conviction to a term of imprisonment of not less than 15 years.” He said Kidnapping had become a fast and lucrative business, adding that, “it has now remained the most virulent form of banditry in Nigeria and the most pervasive and intractable violent crime in the country.” While attributing the spate of kidnappings in the country to corruption, unemployment, poverty and connivance of security agents, Onyewuchi lamented that the frequency at which persons are kidnapped puts most Nigerians at risk. “Kidnapping is on the increase in Nigeria and it is prevalent across all the geopolitical zones. Some blame the rise of this criminal activity on poverty, religion, politics, deficiency of existing laws, unemployment, connivance of security agents, corruption, and greed among others. “Our unemployed youths are also turning to kidnapping to get money (ransom) as a survival strategy. “Whatever the reason, it is most obvious that kidnapping in Nigeria puts everyone at risk, the rich and the poor, old and young, male and female, foreigner or indigene, expatriate or non-expatriate, traditional rulers and religious leaders, among others,” he said. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after scaling second reading, was referred by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters for further legislative work. The committee which is chaired by Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele is expected to report back in four weeks. Meanwhile, two separate bills seeking to establish the Federal University of Science and Technology, Lau, Taraba State and to amend the Federal Universities of Technology Act 2004 also passed the reading on Wednesday. The bills were sponsored by Senators Shuaibu Isa (Taraba North) and Oyelola Yisa Ashiru. Both bills were referred by Lawan to the Committee on Tertiary Institutions and TETFUND for further work. It has four weeks to submit its report to the Senate.  