Chairman, caretaker committee of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVBF), Engineer Musa Nimrod, has restated his commitment to the development of sports in Nigeria. He makes the pledge after receiving the prestigious AUTHENTIC News Daily Outstanding Sportsman of the Year Award for 2020, assuring that he will not relent in doing his best for the growth and development of sports. Speaking during the presentation of the award at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna, consulting editor for AUTHENTIC News Daily, Jacob Onjewu Dickson, said Engr. Nimrod has bagged the award for a record third time, following his un-relented contributions to all round sports development in the country. “Engineer Nimrod is for now, the number one individual contributor to sports development not just in Nigeria, but the entire sub Saharan Africa. “As we speak, only within this month, several events bankrolled by him have been held in several parts of the country, with some running at the same time in several parts of the country,” he said.
“Engineer Nimrod is a man of several achievements, it would require perhaps 24 hours, or a book to attempt to capture him, his activities and noble interventions that have touched lives of Nigerians all over the country. “In view of time constraints, I would not bore you with the details, but would assure you that soon, a book on this perfect gentleman would be launched, where an attempt to capture his achievements and interventions would be laid bare,” he added. On why he was singled out for the Sports Personality award, Dickson said; “From volleyball to football, beach volleyball to athletics, and several other sports, he has not just sponsored, but has given moral support. “Besides sports sponsorship, Engineer Nimrod has also played a huge role in the survival of sports writers in the country. During the lockdown last year, members of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Kaduna State chapter, each benefitted from bags of rice, spaghetti, vegetable oil and other foodstuff,” he added.