By Salisu Na‘inna Dambatta | Nigeria is currently facing a triplet of  experts, specialists and pundits in  political, security and economic sorcery. They always predict doom for Nigeria.  They are simultaneously trading  their wares in a country they live and call home. But  for which they do not wish well  in their practice of sorcery. Their devilish oracles tell them the untruth that Nigeria, home to over 200 million black people, will break up into an unknown number of tiny entities. A sorcerer had the temerity to swear by the grave of his father that our fatherland would go to pieces in the next six months. This type of malicious and wild  prediction has been on the mercantile of the sorcerers for decades; indeed, right from the day the country was stitched together in 1914. It has always failed woefully, just as the current and future bad wishes for  Nigeria  will  turn to ashes. The political  sorcerers are not relenting, rather they are giving timelines in which  Nigeria will be dismantled.  Any form of  deconstructing Nigeria will  not augur well for anyone, including those who pay for the sorcery and financiers of the untenable deconstruction. Politically deconstructed  countries around the world such as Iraq, Sudan and Libya are in a cycle of turmoil and instability.  The sorcerers  that predicted heaven on earth after the disruptions of those countries are now biting their fingers. The political sorcerers did not, and certainly could never have foreseen the catastrophic outcomes of the political destruction of Iraq, Libya and the division of  Sudan into two countries. Nigeria and the 200 million citizens who call it home do not deserve and should not be exposed to that kind of political recklessness as conceived by the devilish political sorcerers. Even former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who seems in his letters to be a critic of the Muhammadu Buhari administration and fond of fanning embers of disaffection against the administration has warned that a category of Nigerians would suffer terribly  should the country be splintered as hoped and prayed for by Robert Clarke,  who some rate as an ignorant, confused and poorly-learned barrister-at-llaw. He should be stripped of  his rank of Senior Advocate of the Supreme Court of the Nigeria he wishes to see dismantled in six months. The security sorcerers are working jointly in a triangle of the devil by constantly denying that the country has successfully contained the insurgency in the North East. Their fake oracles turned their sorcery in security matters into hallucinations by telling them that the so-called caliphate proclaimed by the Boko Haram insurgents still stands. The sorcerers are trying to  deceive gullible Nigerians into  believing that everywhere in the country is barricaded, with security checkpoints   every inch apart. This observation and findings show that contrary to the evil wish of the security sorcerers such checkpoints are now rare. It is true that the socerers have seen or heard of the evil activities of kidnappers, bandits and arsonists, but chose not to admit that the security forces are up and doing, day and night, tracking and successfully finishing off many of  those kidnappers, bandits and arsonists in gun battles. The security forces are doing that to make sure that each of the 200 million Nigerians is freed from the fear of such criminals. The security sorcerers have not seen how on daily basis Nigerian security forces display lethal weapons  recovered from criminals of all hues. The security sorcerers whose blind oracles cannot show them how the police and other state agents are regularly  mopping up illegal weapons and  the seizure of container-loads of illicit war materiel at our borders. In another failure by the oracles to show the security sorcerers the reality,  the Nigerian security forces have foreseen their negative prediction and warned them that they can not be infiltrated or divided into enclaves that can make them drop their guard as they do their job of making Nigeria safe. Indeed, the security forces are busy developing a modest military industrial complex for the country. It has taken off, and much materiel needs for the armed forces are provided through domestic production. This, the security sorcerers did not see. But it is real. The  oracle of the sorcerers cannot detect a civil war in Nigeria. There will be none. Those calling on Ndi Igbo in parts of the country to procure and keep guns for a looming war, will be disappointed forever. This is because those beating the drums of another civil war in Nigeria have been beaten by fate because Nigeria has not been forsaken by the Almighty God. The third leg of the tripod of evil sorcery for Nigeria, which is on the economy, their oracle has equally  failed.  Their false and baseless   characterisation of the Nigerian economy as comatose turns out to be off the mark.  – Dambatta, a senior journalist and former federal director of Information, wrote in from Kano 