The momentous New York- based real estate professional and business mogul, Robert Tuzzo is a real estate force to be reckoned with. At the point when circumstances matched with an energy decline in the soul of his old neighborhood economy, Robert was able to strive in the entrepreneurial sector with his acute marketing strategies and techniques. Robert Tuzzo is a prepared financial specialist, a real estate professional and a tremendous entrepreneur. His ventures New York School of real estate and Digital Blueprints are mind boggling real estate companies that are well versed in the ways of online media. The company primarily comprehends the benefit of dealing with his customers. Robert was consistently ambitious and ardent to make progress in the realm of business. His capacity driven enthusiasm and gigantic fervent and aptitudes for real estate is the thing that gave him an edge over different applicants and made Robert the absolute most remarkable guaranteed professional across New York. He understood that it was in real estate that his energy for property would cross with his inspiration for business and from that point forward he has never looked back. Throughout the previous 20 years, Robert Tuzzo has been at the front line of development inside the real estate and finance business. Rapidly developing and supporting accomplishment as a representative, Robert started to set up a genuine comprehension of the quickly advancing real estate scene just as a developing number of shortcomings inside the market. Driven by a longing to reward the local area and establish a more proficient climate, Robert, close by notable mentor Doug Vairo, built and started the New York School of Real Estate, a free foundation zeroed in on furnishing the underserved real estate community with a quality and successful instructive assets. With NY School of Real Estate, Robert and the association likewise advanced into Triple Play, one of the largest real estate events in the country, where they have had the option to arrive at a huge number of realtors in the course of the most recent couple of years. At this point, the assets given by NY School of Real Estate covered an abundance of information and had been routinely used by more than 30,000 realtors. His endeavors to make an instructive encounter that conveyed both expertly and actually had developed gigantically as the pandemic made distant learning become a fundamental practice. Rapidly, the stage developed to 3,000 members every week, on track for 150,000 in the year. As the innovative climate advanced on the lookout, Robert acknowledged numerous specialists had battled to make the computerized change. This started a re-established center through NY School of Real Estate in which Robert would test dispatch another application named Digital Blueprint. The objective of the application was to help facilitate that change by instructing realtors on the most proficient method to build their advanced impression, among other web-based media and online techniques. As an ever increasing number of individuals understand the pandemic as an opportunity to hone their abilities and spotlight on personal growth, Robert trusts that NY School of Real Estate can end up being an important asset that makes the local real estate arena a more brilliant, more proficient space.