Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) has hinted that 32 federal government agencies have failed to remit over N1.2 trillion to the treasury. This figure, the commission said represents an 80 per cent operating surplus to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF). FRC executive chairman, Mr Victor Muruako, stated this yesterday at a press conference held at the National Assembly. He said over N2.15 trillion had been remitted by some agencies since the law came into effect. “From our records, the total figure paid as operating surplus since the establishment of the FRC till date is over N2.15 trillion which, by the way, could not have been possible without the Act and the commission, given that there would have been no law, rule, regulation or institution requiring such returns. “Sadly, many MDAs persist in defaulting and practically keeping money away from the federal government’s reach for funding its budgets. Our records indicate that over N1.2 trillion is still in the hands of the defaulting MDAs,” he said. The under-remittance, according to Muruako, hinders the accurate determination of operating surplus liabilities and diminishing accountability and transparency in handling government’s revenue. The commission, however, listed 32 MDAs that have yet to present their audit reports to it since 2007 when it was established. The affected MDAs are the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria, Bank of Agriculture, Bank of Industry, Cement Technology Institute of Nigeria, Centre for Black African Arts and Civilisation, Chad Basin National Park, Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Gashaka Gumti National Park, Gurara Water Management Authority, Hadejia-Jama’are River Basin Development Authority, Integrated Water Resources Development Agency and Kainji Lake National Park. Others are National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), National Business and Technical Examination Board (NBTEB), National Council of Arts and Culture (NCAC), National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), National Food Reserve Agency, National Lottery Trust Fund, National Space Research and Development Agency, National Sports Commission (NSC), National Steel Development Fund (now Solid Minerals Development Fund), National Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos, National Troupe, Iganmu, Lagos and Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service. The others are Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Nigeria Integrated Water Resources Management Commission, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC), Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), and Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN). Muruako said, “Government-owned enterprises and corporations are, by the Act, committed to remit 80 per cent of their operating surpluses to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) of the federal government. The payment of operating surplus into the CRF is borne out of the need for the government to generate funds in order to meet revenue requirements in its annual budget execution. “It is also important that corporations make returns on government’s investment, more so because the corporations neither pay income taxes nor dividends. Through the persistent and continuous engagement of MDAs by the Fiscal Responsibility Commission and – especially with the support of the National Assembly – the federal government’s share of operating surplus from these corporations has continued to increase over the years. “From our records, the total figure paid as operating surplus since the establishment of the FRC to date is beyond N2.15trillion which, by the way, could not have been possible without the Act and the commission, given that there would have been no law, rule, regulation or institution requiring such returns. “Sadly, many MDAs still persist in defaulting and practically keeping money away from the federal government’s reach for funding its budgets. Our records indicate that over N1.2trillion is still in the hands of defaulting MDAs. These figures are confirmed from our analysis of the annual audited financial reports submitted to our commission by the concerned agencies. Much more is yet out there in the hands of MDAs that either have failed to dutifully audit their accounts or that have done so but choose not to forward copies of their audited financial reports to the commission as required by law,” he said.  