The Commandant General of Hunter Group of Nigeria Establishment Of Hunters Council Will Boost Grassroots Security – Osatimehin (HGN), Ambassador Joshua Osatimehin, has said that the establishment of Hunters Council of Nigeria (HCN) will further enhance the protection of lives and property in the country most especially in rural areas.  Osatimehin stated this in Abuja while addressing journalists during a one-day public hearing on a Bill for an Act for the establishment of Nigeria Hunters Council, organised by the Senate Committee on Interior He said contrary to views in some quarters, the Bill when passed into law would further assist the country to overcome various security challenges bedeviling Nigeria. According to him, without effective security of citizens, no meaningful development could be achieved. Ambassador Osatimehin, who expressed concern over banditry, kidnapping and other forms of criminality facing the country, said Hunter Group of Nigeria had been complimenting efforts of other security agencies in safeguarding Nigerians. The Commandant General stated that the group had also been assisting some state governments in combating insecurity in their states.  While commending the Senate for its commitment to the passage of the Bill, Osatimehin reiterated the determination of Hunter Group of Nigeria towards supporting the present administration in strengthening security apparatus across the country. Earlier speaking, chairman of the Senate Committee On Interior, Senator Kashim Shetima (APC, Borno Central), expressed concern over the low number of security personnel protecting over 200 million Nigerians, hence the need to consider the establishment of the Nigeria Hunters Council. Senator Shetima expressed the hope that the Bill when passed would further compliment the efforts of the Federal Government in the area of comnunity policing, security in rural areas and employment generations in the country. Also, during the public hearing, the Sponsor of Nigeria Hunters Council of Nigeria Bill, Senator Abiodun Olujimin (PDP, Ekiti South) said the Bill became necessary to further enhance community policing and effective security of lives and property at the grassroots level. Senator Olujimin, who described security as very vital to national development, stated that the Bill when passed into law would also assist in safeguarding government’s property in rural areas and guard against vandalism across the country.