Inspector-general of police (IGP) Usman Baba yesterday launched the new special security action plan, “Operation Restore Peace” in the South-South region. Force public relations officer (PRO), CP Frank Mba, said the IGP, who flagged off the exercise at the Sharks Football Stadium, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, for the South-South region, said it is a continuation of the implementation of the special operation in the country. He said the operation in the South-South region is also targeted at stemming the tide of violent attacks and breakdown of law and order as well as contain the heightened threats to life and property occasioned by the activities of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed wing, the Eastern Security Network (ESN) and other criminal elements in the zone. Baba condemned the increased cases of kidnapping, armed robbery, cult-related violence, economic sabotage and other threats to public safety in the oil-rich region. The IGP said these crimes were in addition to a series of violent attacks on security personnel and formation in the South-South. He however expressed the optimism that the new operation will reorder and stabilise security in the region as he remarked that the personnel deployed for the operation had been charged to courageously and fiercely defend themselves and innocent citizens as well as critical state infrastructure against any criminal group or elements. The IGP enjoined people in the region to support security personnel throughout the period of the operation and beyond. He said the operation would be people-driven, human-right focused but ruthless on criminals. The police boss promised that “Operation Restore Peace” will provide an all-inclusive front to confront criminal elements, take the battle to their doorsteps and reorder the cherished national values of peace and unity in the region. Mba said the governor of Rivers State, who was represented by his deputy at the event, affirmed the zero tolerance of the state government for crimes and criminality in the state. He commended the IGP for the initiative and pledged support of the state government to the success of “Operation Restore Peace” in the state, the South-South region and the country at large.  