As the founder of ”LPA Media’ which handles Digital Marketing of various brands, he admits that to grow your online presence robust and unique Digital Marketing strategies are essential. Philipp is one of the successful tech entrepreneurs we have in our midst today who has done amazingly well in his career as a Digital Marketing expert, owner of a Digital Marketing agency and founder of the worldwide leading Online training platform for social media knowledge. He has established his strong presence in the field and his exceptional work has resulted in his clients revenues expanding rapidly, giving himself and his company enough proof of his impeccable services. So what makes this young entrepreneur from Dormagen, Noervenich, a popular Social Media Marketer and business owner whose work has found him innumerable clients? Let’s read on to know that. Philipp has the finest skills that makes him one of the best in business. He is regarded as one of the most talented Digital experts who has taken the online presence of many brands to dizzying heights of success. Apart from being a successful Social Media Marketing agency owner named ‘LPA Media’ he is also the founder of the biggest social media training platform which has established its presence worldwide called ‘IG Elites Academy’. It is regarded as one of the most popular and fastest growing training within this industry. The academy has hordes of students as members who share their knowledge and find unique methods to catapult their own online brands on social media. His agency has helped many brands, and businesses establish their online presence. His knowledge in the area is commendable which has many clients thronging to him to get their digital presence established strongly. What makes him stand apart from others in the field is his work which has helped many online entities double up their revenues and turn into profitable ventures. “Nowadays a robust Digital Marketing plan is required for any online business to survive and turn their business profitable. Just by establishing your online presence will not spruce up your sales until you use the right marketing strategies to reach the right customer base. Online success is possible only through proper Digital Marketing methods,” says the expert.