The federal government said it will continue to support and collaborate with the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX) and the private sector to transform the nation’s economy. President Muhammadu Buhari stated this at the virtual unveiling of the NGX’s brand and closing bell ceremony held on Tuesday. The virtual event was held to amplify NGX Group’s positioning and commitment to the African financial markets as a leading capital market infrastructure provider, connecting Nigeria, Africa and the world, as well as spotlight the growth potential of the African continent. Buhari stated that, “Let me start by congratulating Nigerian Exchange Group Plc on its recently concluded demutualisation, which is the first in the country. I recall signing the Demutualisation Bill in August 2018, paving the way for the long awaited demutualisation of the then Nigerian Stock Exchange.” According to him, “the Exchange continues to play its part in nation building by stimulating economic growth and providing a platform for businesses and individual to save and raise capital through innovation, diversified products and services, enabling regulatory environment and much more.” On her part, the minister of finance, budget and national planning, Dr Zainab Ahmed, said the demutualisation of the Exchange, a landmark transaction that generated intense global interest, is critical for the development of the Nigerian Capital Market (NCM) as it will enable the Exchange give new strategic partnerships, achieve capital raising flexibility and improve its operational efficiency with a view to accomplishing its vision of becoming Africa’s leading capital market infrastructure. Similarly, the Group chairman, NGX Group, Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo said: “with demutualisation, NGX Group is well positioned to enable strong economic growth and contribute its quota to the development of the Nigerian capital market, and the African continent.” On his part, the group managing director/CEO, NGX Group, Mr. Oscar Onyema, noted that, “as we march bravely into the NGX era, we look forward to impact creating partnerships that will unlock value for our stakeholders, whilst improving the state of the Nigerian economy. It is a period to reinforce on the global stage, our great African pedigree and the stock Africa is made of.”