A former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki and civil society organisations (CSOs), have called on government at all levels to make insurance of market places mandatory in order to mitigate huge losses associated with incessant market fires in the country. The Africa Politeia Institute (TAPI), presided over by Saraki and the Adopt a Goal for Development Initiative (AAGI), led by Dare Atoye, made the joint call during the second series webinar of the ‘Grow Nigeria Conversation (GNC)’ convened by the former Senate President in Abuja on Thursday. The second edition of the Grow Nigeria Conversation focused on the disturbing spate of market fires and its tolls on the ordinary people and the deepening poverty level. The highly-engaging conversation featured key speakers like Engr Joseph Garba Anebi, a former Controller General of the Federal Fire Service represented by Mr Oluseyi Odunyi; Debbie Windele, a Fire Safety Expert, and Dr Taibat Lawanson, an Urban Planning & Development Specialist, at the University of Lagos. Others were Dr Usman Ado Kibon; Director, Centre for Disaster Risk Management, ABU, Zaria, Ebose Austin Osegha, CEO/MD Anchor General Insurance Company and McDonald Ifeanyi, an IT specialist. The group according to a statement after the event, titled: “Addressing the disturbing spate of market fires …its tolls on the ordinary people and the deepening poverty level,” pointed out that “market fires occur due to carelessness, poor market planning or set-up, electrical faults etc. There’s also the religious belief that market fires are ‘an act of God.” Experts at the event noted that proper planning, central electricity generation and distribution system as well as the use of renewable energy sources like solar can help solve the problem. “Most markets are not insured and so when there’s an outbreak, huge losses are recorded and livelihoods affected. “It was observed that rather than donate millions of naira to rebuilding markets after an outbreak, such funds should be channelled towards preventing these fires and insuring the markets. “Also, there should be laws and policies that make insurance of marketplaces mandatory. “The need for advocacy and sensitisation of market leaders and traders is key towards mitigating fire incidences in our markets. “Local governments, which should be the first responders during a fire outbreak, are incapacitated. Poor funding has remained a major problem of the LGAs. “As such, the authorities look to the markets for revenue. Overtime, the market design does not matter to them so long as there are more people coming in who pay taxes. “Most markets in Nigeria serve as accommodation spaces for a lot of people. This is a direct reflection of the poor economic situation of the country. “Except security personnel who guard marketplaces, other people should not be allowed to stay in markets,” they said. Highlights of the event included live feeds from the Central Market in Sokoto and Oshodi Market in Lagos.