The last one year has been strong bull run for the equities markets in Africa & globally. The NGX has recovered all its post-pandemic losses, and it is up nearly 100% since March, 2020. This leads to a question, how did the equities market recover so quickly? The equities markets in Nigeria in March 2020 were trading at 2007–2008 Financial crisis level i.e., at the NSE-All Shares index had fell to nearly 21,000. Similarly, FTSE/JSE All Share Index fell to 2013 level of 37,000 from its high. The same was the situation with many US & European stocks & indices. Experts say that many investors have been pouring in the equities & crypto market since post pandemic. Millions of retail traders & investors saw the market decline in March 2020 as an opportunity to invest in the equities markets & cryptos, because the returns on other investments like bonds, term-deposits etc. were comparatively lower. There has been a surge on number of first-time retail traders, the so called ‘Robinhood traders’ & so many retail trading platforms have started across Africa and other parts of the world. But many investors & traders say that they have missed out on this market bull run, and are waiting on the side-lines to find the right opportunity to enter the markets. And there are also traders who want to jump in on the opportunity to earn from the market volatility. So, what’s the best way going forward? What are the risks that you must watch out for, and how can you trade in the markets? One of the first and foremost things that you have to do before investing is to create a trading plan. Without a clear-cut plan, you will not be able to determine how much you can spare for investment every month and what’s the level of risk you can assume. So, the first decisions you need to make is whether you will be trading or whether you will be investing. Once you decide that you can go ahead with your trading or investing plan. Investing is basically considered for long-term, and you invest in low-risk instruments or equities that you understand. Trading on the other hand is short-term hustle, which can bring return but the risk can be huge. The trading plan has to have some important considerations. Additionally, you will need to be hands on with your trade if you are looking to make short term gain. But there is also great chance that you could lose your money. So, you should factor that into consideration & never put more than 20% of your investment capital on short term trading. In the market that exists today there are so many instruments that one can trade or invest in, it’s so easy to get confused by the various things that are available in the markets. Trading or investing in something just because it is a hot commodity in public knowledge can be a bad idea & can have a negative impact on your decision making. Your plan and goal should be based on your knowledge, risk appetite and comfort. Don’t invest into something or place a trade that was suggested to you without knowing what it is about. You can get influenced by the market and the trends; this is the reason why so many people who participate in the markets lose their money. The most popular financial instruments among African traders & investors are stocks (NGX, JSE & foreign), cryptos (mostly Bitcoin), forex & CFD trading and Gold. So, begin your process by understanding which instrument it is that you want to trade or invest in. Once you are sure then you can choose one of the reputed brokers that offer such instruments and register with them. It’s best to ask licensed financial advisors, who are the reputed brokers and read reviews online before open a trading account. You can also approach your local financial authority to get more information regarding brokers and regulations. Before you can start trading, you would need to choose a licensed/authorized broker and register with them. For registration, it’s compulsory for you to provide all your original KYC documents for verification. For stocks, Nigerian traders should only trade with NGX licensed brokers which would ensure the safety of your funds. Nigerian traders can trade the securities listed on NGX, which includes Nigerian blue-chip stocks like GT Bank, Dangote etc. For alternative instruments, like forex trading, currently there are no SEC regulated forex brokers in Nigeria. While forex trading in South Africa is regulated & African investors mostly trade forex & CFDs with FSCA regulated derivatives brokers. Nigeria is the second largest forex trading market in Africa after South Africa, but there are no locally regulated brokers. Most of the Nigerian trades trade forex via foreign regulated brokers. It is recommended for Nigerian traders to avoid trading forex till there are locally regulated brokers for the safety of their funds. As a general rule while opening your trading account, make sure that you submit all the correct documents for verification i.e., your genuine ID proof & Address proof are required by the broker, otherwise you could be denied access to a trading account in future & the broker may also limit your withdrawals i.e., it won’t be allowed if there is some error in processing your documents. Another important factor that you need to keep in mind is the various charges & fees that a broker will charge you for your trades. The charges vary from transaction fees, order fees to withdrawal charges. These charges are different for every broker. You need to compare which broker is the cheapest option for you. The charges also vary for every instrument you want to trade. Fees is a crucial factor to be considered as it can make or break your trade. Some broker charge commission regardless of the fact that you make money or not. So, you need to be careful about your broker’s policies and what you are signing up for. There are also different features that brokers offer on their platform to first-time traders who are still learning to trade. You should compare all the features & choose a broker that has the lowest fees, and good platform. Financial markets are risky. With short-term trading, the risk of losing is much higher. So, you must have a contingent plan for every trade you make. The market can be extremely volatile and there are innumerable factors that affect the price in the market. By the time you hear the news of some event, the market could have already dropped 5-6% or even more, that’s how fluctuating a market can be. Most brokers have features such as stop-loss trading, negative balance protection etc. on their trading apps. You should make use of these features to avoid huge losses. Also, there have been numerous instances where day traders have lost all their money in a single trade. This is a very reckless approach, and you must avoid this. Always have a risk management plan, and ask yourself these questions: how much you are going to risk on a trade, what could be your loss, is the possible loss bigger than potential profit to be gained, what is your contingency in case the market goes against your trade? Most brokers will have calculators on their app which you can use to calculate the profit and loss for every trade and how much charges will the broker charge you for that transaction. This should give you a good idea if you should be in that trade or not. Trading in the financial markets is nothing short of gambling, mostly because of the risks involved. In both the cases you are putting your money into something without the surety of getting your money back. Only big difference between the both is that one of an informed choice based on data and facts whereas the other is mostly a game of chance. You should not treat the financial markets as a casino because things can go haywire in a matter of time. Just because you are investing in the financial markets doesn’t meant that you have to follow the trend or take huge risks. If you are diligent with your trade & calculate the risk vs the downside, the likelihood of making return is higher. One of the biggest advices that experts give to traders is to avoid taking emotional decisions. The market is very volatile and you can lose your money but this doesn’t mean that you put more money onto a losing trade in attempt to recover the money you lost. This way you can be sure to lose everything before you realise what is going on. Every decision you take should be backed by some sort of concrete data you can rely on. This requires you to stay updated with the market and understand how the market functions.