The increasing chaotic traffic situation and incidences of crime in Benin City and its environs may soon be compounded, following the judgment of the Court of Appeal upturning the ban on commercial motorcycles, popularly called Okada. Recall that on the June 11, 2013, the then Edo State governor, Adams Oshionmhole, issued a verbal order banning the use of motorcycles in Oredo, Egor and Ikpoba Okha local government areas and Oluku and Ekosodin areas of Ovia North East local government areas and Eyaen area of Uhunmwonde LGA of the state. He also ordered law enforcement agencies to arrest and confiscate motorcycles and also prosecute any rider of a motorcycle in the affected areas. ‎But the Court of Appeal, Benin Judicial Division, on Wednesday,  May 19, 2021, overturned the governor’s directive of 2013, banning the operation of commercial Okada riders in parts of the state. Delivering judgement in Appeal No. CA/B/341/2014 between Mr. Charles Apiloko James and another versus Edo State government and five others, the appellate court upheld the arguments of counsel for the Appellants, Dele Igbinedion Esq., that the Governor of Edo State lacked the legal powers to ban the use of motorcycles in any part of the State by mere verbal pronouncement. The Court of Appeal in upholding the appeal, granted the reliefs of the appellants in part, and said: “It is hereby declared that the Governor’s verbal ban of the use of Motorcycles was unconstitutional, illegal, null, void and of no effect whatsoever. “An order is issued forthwith setting aside the Governor’s verbal ban on the use of Motorcycles.” The court further awarded‎ the sum of N301,000 as compensation and costs in favour of the Appellants against the Governor of Edo State. The lead judgement was delivered by Justice Georgewill Biobele Brown, while other Justices unanimously concurred.‎ LEADERSHIP recall that the Appellants, dissatisfied with the oral ban of okada operation by former Governor Oshiomhole, had briefed their counsel, Dele Igbinedion Esq, who filed a lawsuit before the Federal High Court in Benin City, wherein the plaintiffs challenged the power of the Edo State governor to ban the use of motorcycles through a verbal order. The  Federal High Court dismissed the suit, stating that the plaintiffs’ fundamental rights to freedom of movement was not infringed because if security agents stopped them from using motorcycles, then they could have used other means to move around other than motorcycles. The plaintiffs, however, disagreed with the reasoning of the learned trial Judge and filed an appeal through their lawyer against the judgment the Federal High Court before the Court of Appeal, seeking the setting aside of the judgement of the lower court. Speaking shortly after the Appeal Court judgment, counsel for the Appellants, Igbinedion Esq, said: “The effect of this judgment is far reaching. It means that Edo people are now free to ride their motorcycles in the whole of Edo State without fear of molestation. “Edo people can now ride their motorcycles anywhere in Oredo, Ikpoba Okha, and Egor local government council areas. Edo people can ride their motorcycles in Oluku and Ekosodin axis of Ovia North East local government council. Edo people can ride their motorcycles in Eyaen axis of Uhunmwonde local government council area. “In fact, anyone can now ride motorcycles in any part of Edo State. “Any security agent who molests anyone riding a motorcycle in any part of Edo State does so in contempt of the order of the Court of Appeal.”