It remains a heart-wrenching memory for every Rivers person particularly the sour taste and gory images that characterised your exit from the office of the Governor in 2015 particularly your failure to hand over to the then incoming Governor His Excellency Nyesom Wike as tradition demands. This was a man whom you publicly professed that made you Governor and ensured you were brought back to Nigeria from Ghana for your swearing in. An attestation which you made that after God, it was Barr. Wike that made you Governor. Records never lie and today being your birthday should not be used to deny the facts. JUST A BACKGROUND:
What type of birthday gift do you expect to receive from Rivers people on a day like this? Just the other day, the Governor of Rivers state Barr. Nyesom Wike called you out and made some serious allegations against your reign as Rivers State Governor. a. Governor Nyesom Wike raised the alarm and challenged you to prove to the contrary that you diverted Rivers State monies. He said “Amaechi sold RIVERS STATE Owned AIRCRAFT to Cross Rivers State Government and $6 million dollars was paid but the money cannot be traced to any account of Rivers State Government. He stated that another AIRCRAFT belonging to the state was discovered in Germany where you Rt. Hon. Amaechi hid it. The Governor said the Aircraft has been recovered and is currently being rehabilitated. Dear Minister, on this occasion of your birthday, what will the children of this state whom we are also celebrating today think about you when these stories are told? b. Hon. Minister, this organization, Free People and Good Leadership Initiative is worried about your records as Governor of Rivers state and the too many corruption festered complications that have trailed it against the background that you have not bothered to come forward to deny them. c. Again Hon. Minister, you have always bragged that you employed thirteen thousand Teachers in Rivers state. The questions now are: Did your administration pay any of their salaries? Is it not Governor Wike’s administration that is paying them? If that is so, can it not rather be said that Gov. Wike employed them since he has been the one paying them salaries from day one? Can you still lay claim to this fact? Was the detail of their employment contained in any handover note which you prepared and gave to him because Rivers people know that you did not handover to him. By the way, on your last birthday as Governor in 2015, you vowed that the Wike administration will not find money anywhere to do projects or pay salaries. This is actually curious because all the proceeds from sales of assets under your watch cannot be accounted for as ascertained by the Omereji Commission of Enquiry white paper. Your Excellency the Hon. Minister, are you not taken aback today, this special day of yours that the Gov. Wike administration has proven you wrong against all odds with high-flying iconic projects scattered all over the state contrary to your failed weather forecast on Rivers State under his watch? e. It is part of the Happy birthday to you Hon. Minister to remind you that without any arguments, Governor Nyesom Wike has executed nine flyover projects in Rivers state in two years, a feat no Governor in history had achieved before. There is visibility of value for Rivers peoples money in this state today. This is something that you cannot boast of when compared to your Scam legacy Monorail project that continues to deface Rivers State in your name. Hon. Minister, on this your birthday today, are you worried that your Monorail is an ill-conceived project wherein Rivers monies were wasted to seriously impoverish our dear state. We are talking about £317 million dollars gone down with no accountable trace, all to your name. f. Hon. Minister, there have been series of allegations against your person to the effect that you reportedly failed to remit the proceeds of the sale of the Rivers State owned Power plants to the tone of $380 million dollars. The more disturbing impression in the public and political space is that it is believed you deliberately decimated and wiped away all the legacies and signatures of the former Governor, His Excellency Sir Peter Odili, the man who gave you the footing and brought you to limelight in life. You went ahead to ridicule this great father of modern Rivers Politics who raised all of you by setting up the Justice Kayode Eso Panel to nationally disgrace and humiliate him. This type of betrayal is legendary because without His Excellency Sir Peter Odili, you will doubtlessly not be where you are today. Hon. Minister Sir, on this your birthday today, one would wonder in conscience and truth how you feel and how you sleep at night arising from this betrayal. Hon. Minister, ARE YOU NOT THE REAL AND GREATEST BETRAYER? Every known politician who has worked with you including the one who brought you to limelight Sir Dr. Peter Odili, you have fallen out with. On this your birthday today Sir, may God help you to do a introspection yourself. g. Again Hon. Minister, are you not bothered about the indictment hanging on your neck by the Omereji Commission white paper? Why are you not submitting yourself for trial if your hands are clean? Hon. Minister, this organization Free People and Good Leadership Initiative is interested in fair justice for you but you appear unwilling to clear your name. Hon. Minister Sir, in this period that the world is facing a serious health challenge arising from the novel coronavirus, can you use this occasion of your birthday to succinctly reflect on what the $39 million dollars phony Karibi-Whyte Hospital would have done for Rivers state if it were not a scam project used to divert Rivers money contrary to your mantra and misleading rhetoric of “I don’t like Money”. Finally Sir, on this birthday of yours today, can you ask yourself, WHO DO MEN SAY I AM AS CHIBUIKE ROTIMI AMAECHI? This birthday message to His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Chief Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, Former Governor of Rivers state and Minister for Transportation, powered by FREE PEOPLE AND GOOD LEADERSHIP INITIATIVE. Signed: Comrade Chima Nsirimovu
Chairman Comrade Isa Yusuf Mohammad
Director of Administration Mrs. Stella Nwaneri
General Secretary